PRESS RELEASE
                                      MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                                                                     
                    CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                                                 (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA
                                                          12 MAC 2020
                  
                 COVID-19 CURRENT STATUS IN MALAYSIA
                  
                 Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                 today, there are nine (9) new cases were confirmed positive
                 Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) have been reported to the Crisis
                 Preparedness and Response Center (CPRC) ethnicity.
                  
                 With the nine (9) new cases, it makes total
                 COVID cumulative positive cases in Malaysia is the 19th of 158 cases.
                 Of these:
                 • 26 cases were diagnosed in Patient-Under-Investigation
                         (PUI) infection COVID-19;
                 • 127 cases among close contacts;
                 • Two (2) in the case of the severe acute respiratory infection
                         (SARI) through surveillance COVID-19;
                 • one (1) in the case of influenza-like-illness (ILI) through
                         sharps COVID-19; and
                 • Two (2) cases of Humanitarian Aid Mission.
                  
                 Today, there are six (6) cases were recovered. All cases have
                 COVID negative-19 in two (2) times in a row before
           allowed to return. With the new amount is the total discharge
           cumulative cases have fully recovered so far from COVID-19 and
           has been discharged from the ward were 32 cases. At this time
           There are three (3) cases are being treated in the intensive care unit
           require a ventilator to breathe and they are in stable condition.
            
           CURRENT STATUS COVID-19 GLOBAL
            
           MOH Health Organization took note of the statement
           International (WHO) dated March 11, 2020 on the current situation
           COVID 19th globally involving 114 countries. The World Health Organization
           has declared the incident COVID-19 as a pandemic by
           taking into account the increase in cases is significant in countries
           In addition to the People's Republic of China. The number of cases in countries other
           People's Republic of China is expected to continue to rise. WHO also
           informed that the preventive and control measures are being
           is still relevant ongoing and proposed to be increased.
            
           With the announcement of this WHO, MOH will continue to ensure that measures
           infection prevention and control COVID-19 was carried out
           assessed according to the current situation in our country and will be enhanced.
            
           HEALTH ADVICE
            
           MOH would like to refer to the press statement of the Director General of Health
           Malaysia dated March 11, 2020 relating to the gathering at the mosque sermons
           Seri Petaling, Selangor on February 27, 2020 until March 3, 2020,
           those who attend or who are involved in this association requested
           to contact the District Health Office (DHO) close to
           assessment of the risk of infection COVID-19 and further action by the PKD; ie:
                    i. Clinical samples to be taken if it is found at high risk
                            COVID-19 infection or if symptomatic tract infections
                            breathing;
                    ii. Orders received in the House Oversight and Observations
                            to undergo supervision and monitoring at home; and
                    iii. explained the need to monitor the health use
                            Home Assessment Tool which will be given by Officers
                            Authorized under the Prevention and Control of Diseases
                            Infectious 1988.
                     
                    The public is involved in the rally are asked to give
                    cooperation and adhere to the advice given by the Ministry of Health for
                    ensure no spread of infection in the community COVID-19
                    common. MOH has also been informed about the incidence of infection
                    COVID-19 involving the gathering of International Health
                    Regulations (IHR) Focal Point (FP) countries which have
                    participants attended this event.
                     
                    Public should not spread unconfirmed information
                    19 COVID-related infections involving these sermons rally
                    in order to maintain public harmony. MOH will always
                    inform the relevant circumstances of this incident from time to time.
                     
                    Thank you.
                     
                    COMMISSIONER DR. Noor Hisham Abdullah
                    DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                    March 12, 2020 @ 7 pm