PRESS RELEASE
                   MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                                  
          CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                        (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA
                                      
                             8 MAC 2020
        
       CURRENT STATUS CONFIRMED CASES COVID-19 HAS RECOVERED
        
       Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that th case
       41 were confirmed positive for Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) previously
       was recovered and allowed to discharge from the ward of Hospital Kuala Lumpur. this
       makes 24 cases have fully recovered so far from COVID-19 and has
       discharge from the ward.
        
       LATEST CASE STATUS COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA
        
       Recently, the Ministry of Health would like to inform that as of March 8, 2020, at 12
       noon, there were six (6) new cases, 19 were COVID
       reported. All these cases have been detected and isolated for treatment
       Next. Close contacts of the case is also being recognized for
       Further investigation and sampling. All new cases
       reported today consists of clusters of cases closely contacts the 26th.
       All these cases have been detected during the contact tracing activities and
       was admitted to hospital for isolation and treatment.
       Activities close contact detection is still ongoing until
       the cause in which infection occurs can be identified.
        
       With the six (6) new cases, bringing the cumulative total
       COVID-19 positive cases in Malaysia were 99 cases. of
       The total of 18 cases were detected among the Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI)
       COVID-19 infection, 79 cases among close contacts and two (2) cases
       of Humanitarian Aid Mission. Of these, two cases have been
                                                            
      
     reported to require resuscitation and treated in Intensive Care Unit
     Neat. These cases have also been given anti-viral treatment.
      
     For your information, the cases reported for the second wave of this
     (Starting up the case of the 23 cases to 99), only five (5) cases were
     reported from the PUI and have a history of travel
     countries. While other cases involved the cluster comprising
     of contacts and meetings had to do with each
     other.
      
     MOH also conducted surveillance COVID-19 to detect sporadic cases
     and local cases in Malaysia through the influenza-like-illness (ILI) and
     severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) that has nothing to do with history
     travel to the affected countries or in contact with a positive case
     COVID-19. As of March 8, 2020, a total of 567 samples have been tested and
     so far none of the samples tested positive for infection COVID-19. Based on
     current information, there are currently no cases of sporadic COVID 19th
     This is detected through surveillance activities.
      
     HEALTH ADVICE
      
       1. For individuals who have been ordered to undergo a "home surveillance"
        be sure to follow the procedures and Supervision Order
        Observations in the house that has been set. For information,
        Order Monitoring and Observation in this house is the directive
        enshrined in the Prevention and Control of Diseases
        Infectious 1988 (Act 342).
         
       2. defer travel
        Ministry of Health wishes to advise the public to
        abroad, mainly to the provinces or cities
        which declared a pandemic COVID-19 in Czech
        Of China, the Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran (as
        mentioned earlier).
      
       3. The public is also advised to always maintain a level
        high hygiene such as frequent hand washing with water and
        soap, or use a hand sanitizer. Seek immediate treatment
                                               
      
        medical attention if symptoms of respiratory tract infection
        such as fever, cough or difficulty in breathing.
      
       4. Members of the public are advised not to visit symptomatic
        places crowded with people. Keep a distance of at
        least one meter when dealing with others.
      
       5. The public is also reminded to not spread or
        unverified information related to events such as the 19th COVID
                                               
                                    
        places contaminated by COVID-19.
      
       6. The Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of infection COVID-
        19 from time to time and the public will be kept informed
        about it. The latest information on current developments
        events COVID-19 are available from the website of the Ministry of Health;
        www.moh.gov.my
                   
      
      
     Thank you.
      
     COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
     DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
      
     March 8, 2020 @ 4:00 pm