PRESS STATEMENT
                        MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA

            UPDATES ON THE CORONAVIRUS DISEASE 2019 (COVID-19)
                            SITUATION IN MALAYSIA

        Update on the Tabligh Gathering in Malaysia

        14 March 2020, 7 pm – The Ministry of Health (MOH) wishes to update that
        4,942 individuals who participated in the Tabligh gathering at the Seri Petaling
        mosque, Selangor have been identified. Of these,  3,069  individuals  have
        presented to health clinics for further examination and health screening. A total
        of 1,634 individuals were found to have respiratory tract infection symptoms
        and samples have been taken for COVID-19 tests. From those examined, 137
        individuals have been referred to hospitals for further management, while the
        remaining 2,932 individuals were placed under the 14-day home surveillance
        from the date they last joined the Tabligh gathering at Seri Petaling mosque.
        Investigation and contact tracing activities for individuals involved with the
        gathering are still ongoing.

        With  reference  to  the  Press  Statement  of  the  Director  General  of  Health
        Malaysia dated 14 March 2020, 5 pm, a total of 41 additional confirmed
        COVID-19 cases were reported today. Of these, three (3) cases are close
        contacts of the cluster related to Case 33 that has been reported earlier, and
        one (1) case has a history of travelling to Iran. The remaining 37 confirmed
        cases are related to the Tabligh gathering cluster.

        With these additional 37 cases, cumulatively there are now 77 confirmed
                                   Tabligh               .
        COVID-19 cases related to the      gathering cluster These cases
        were detected in Sabah (26 cases), Negeri Sembilan (11 cases), Sarawak
        (6 cases), 5 cases respectively in Johor, Melaka, Selangor and Pulau
        Pinang, Kelantan (3 cases), 2 cases respectively in Perak, WP Labuan,
                                                                    .
        Pahang, Kedah and WP Kuala Lumpur & Putrajaya, and 1 case in Perlis

                                                                    1

      All 77 cases are receiving in-patient treatment in hospitals, with one (1) case
      receiving treatment in the intensive care unit and in a stable condition.

      Health Advisory

      MOH advises individuals who have participated in the Tabligh gathering and
      have not undergone examination and health screening to contact the nearest
      District Health Office for advice and further management. Individuals who have
      received the 14-day home surveillance order are strongly advised to comply to
      all directives to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 infection.

      In addition, family members of these individuals who have received the home
      surveillance order are requested to:

        1. Continuously remind and ensure that all directives are complied with for
          the greater benefit of the community;

        2. Take preventive measures to reduce the risk of COVID-19 infection to
          other family members living in the same household, including ensuring
          that these individuals always wear facemasks when out of their own
          rooms and avoid close contact; and

        3. Advise all family members to always maintain a high level of self-care,
          including good personal hygiene and a clean living environment.

      Individuals or organisations planning to organise religious events or gatherings
      involving Tabligh members with the public are requested to inform the nearest
      District Health Office for monitoring and health advice.

      Taking into account that Tabligh members have returned to their respective
      states, all State Health Departments are currently working hard to identify and
      screen individuals who have attended the Tabligh gathering as well as the
      close contacts of those already found positive with COVID-19. In addition,
      MOH wishes to inform several measures that have been taken by several State
      Health Departments:

        1. Perlis State Health Department has placed 64 Tabligh members, who
          participated in the Tabligh gathering in Seri Petaling mosque, in Dewan
          Wawasan 2020 for the 14-day home surveillance.
                                                      2


         2.                            has designated Membidai Health
           WP Labuan State Health Department
           Clinic,  WP  Labuan  as  the  COVID-19  screening  centre  for  Tabligh
           members who participated in the Tabligh gathering and for individuals
           who attended the “Klinik Hukum bersama Mufti Wilayah” program. This
           clinic is also opened on Saturday and Sunday, 8 am to 3 pm.

         3. WP  Kuala  Lumpur  &  Putrajaya  State  Health  Department  has
           implemented a screening activity for Tabligh members at Seri Petaling
           mosque starting from 12 March 2020. The mosque is currently closed for
           cleaning and disinfection activities. This mosque is also being used as a
           facility  for  the  14-day  home  surveillance  for  Tabligh  members  and
           students  in  residence,  from  the  date  of  the  last  COVID-19  case  is
           detected  amongst  them.  The  public  is  restricted  from  entering  the
           mosque to prevent further COVID-19 infection.

       MOH will continue to monitor the development of the COVID-19 situation
       amongst individuals and participants involved with the Tabligh gathering, and
       the public will be continuously updated. The public is also advised that COVID-
       19 prevention and control measures must be taken seriously.

       Thank you.


       DATUK DR NOOR HISHAM ABDULLAH
       Director General of Health Malaysia

       14 March 2020 @ 7.30 pm

                                                             3