PRESS RELEASE
                                              MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA

                        CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                                                            (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA

                 CURRENT STATUS OF TRANSMISSION CASE COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA

                      • Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                           NO new cases reported today, 29 February 2020.

                      • The number of cumulative cases COVID-19 reported today
                           remained at 25 cases with three (3) recent case (the case of the 23 th case
                           24 cases to 25) that are treated in the ward.

                      • All three (3) cases being treated in hospital following is
                           in stable condition:

                              i. Case of 23, a Malaysian woman treated at the Center
                                     Medical University of Malaya (UMMC)
                             ii. Case 24th, a Japanese woman treated at Hospital
                                     Lumpur (HKL);
                            iii. Case of 25, Italian nationals being treated at Hospital Sungai
                                     Buloh.

                      • Accordingly, the number of cases have fully recovered and discharged
                           so today is 22 people.

                      • As of February 29, 2020, a total of 1,619 individuals have taken
                           samples for the detection of coronavirus infection 2019 (COVID-
                           19). They consist of the Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI),
                           positive contact with the victim COVID-19 individuals who fall through
                           Aid Missions and cruise ships.




                 Humanitarian Aid Mission

                      • A total of 66 citizens and their family members not
                           citizen brought back in Wuhan, China on February 25, 2020,
                           now at the monitoring center at the Academy of Educational Leadership
                           (AKEPT) and all in good health.

                      • Health screening through detection tests COVID 19th time
                           arrival found all negative.

                      • They will continue to be for the purpose of monitoring AKEPT
                           health for 14 days starting on 26 February 2020 until 11
                           March 2020.

                 SOUTH KOREA TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS

                      • Referring to the Director General of Health Press Release
                           dated February 28, 2020, informed that:

                              i. For the citizens of the Republic of Korea, the restrictions would only
                                     imposed on those who came from Daegu City and
                                     Cheongdo area only. However, citizens
                                     The Republic of Korea has left Daegu City and
                                     Cheongdo area exceeding 14 days from date of arrival to
                                     Malaysia has no travel restrictions.

                             ii. For all foreign visitors of Daegu City and District
                                     Cheongdo also imposed travel restrictions if ever
                                     to be in place within 14 days from the date
                                     arrival. However, foreign visitors who have left
                                     Daegu City and District Cheongdo exceed 14 days from
                                     arrival in Malaysia There are no travel restrictions;

                            iii. For citizens, permanent residents and holders of the pass
                                     (Long-term social visit passes and student passes) ever
                                     located in Daegu City and District Cheongdo within 14
                                     today, there are no travel restrictions. However, they
                                     required to undergo health screening as
                                     set by the Ministry of Health;



                       iv. It should be noted that this regulation was enforced
                              from 28 February 2020.

              RELATED HEALTH ADVICE COVID-19

                  •  Medical practitioner:

                        i. Based on the current situation COVID-19 in Malaysia and
                              the latest developments at the global level, all practitioners
                              Schools at all levels of government health facilities and
                              privately suggested that preventive measures and
                              control infection (infection prevention and control) always
                              at an optimal level at all times.

                  •  Citizen:

                        i. Ministry of Health once again want to remind the public to
                              postpone a trip to the People's Republic of China, Republic
                              Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran if the trip is not
                              urgent.

                       ii. If unable to put the journey,
                              preventive measures should be implemented including
                              Optimum hygiene practices at all
                              time.

                       iii. Always practice the optimum level of cleanliness
                              each time, such as frequent hand washing
                              use water and soap or detergent (hand
                              sanitizer).

                       iv. Always practice cough etiquette (cough etiquette) is good,
                              namely cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing
                              or sneeze, then wash your hands with and
                              immediately.

                       v. If symptomatic within 14 days after the return of
                              visit the People's Republic of China, Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and


                   Iran - inform about the history of the
                   Medical Practice going for treatment.

           • Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection
              through information obtained from the WHO. Many people
              will be kept informed of any developments latest
              about it. Similarly, the MOH will ensure steps
              prevention and control measures implemented
              ongoing.

         Thank you.


         COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
         DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

         February 29, 2020