PRESS RELEASE
                                                      DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

                                                                       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                Coronavirus DISEASE (COVID-19) IN CASE TO-22

                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that the case
                          to-22 who is a US citizen woman
                          83-year-old has shown the development of the health status
                          that is very good. These patients are still being monitored in hospital
                          There was a slight cough.

                          Earlier, as Director General of Health Press Release on 15
                          In February 2020, all 22 cases were detected asymptomatic through "thermal
                          scanner "on arrival at Kuala Lumpur International Airport
                          (KLIA) and then was referred to the Sungai Buloh Hospital.
                                 • Clinical examination and chest x-ray test to confirm the patient
                                       have inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia)
                                 • The patient was admitted to the isolation ward at the Sungai Buloh Hospital.
                                 • oropharyngeal and nasopharyngeal clinical samples have been taken.
                                       Confirmation test COVID-19 for the two samples were
                                       carried out twice by the Institute for Medical Research
                                       (IMR) and two tests confirmed positive on February 15, 2020.
                                 • The case was given the antiviral drug (lopinavir / ritonavir) and
                                       oxygen for symptomatic relief faces.
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                          After over 72 hours of treatment, the case has demonstrated
                          changes in good health. The retesting
                          confirmation COVID-19 was carried out by 2 times the distance
                          24 hours for each exam. Both of these replications test
                          showed a negative result.

                          The replay detection tests have been conducted to ensure that the case was
                          cured and negative COVID-19.

                          For information, refer to the latest research findings related
                          COVID-19, nearly 80% of patients reported COVID-19 is
                          patients who experience mild symptoms and no specific treatment
                          or antivirals needed for this disease.

                          Most patients require only symptomatic treatment (such as
                          fever, cough and runny nose) and isolation of cases should be carried out for
                          prevent the spread of the disease to others. This is because,
                          most cases have been confirmed positive, the immune system of the human body
                          will produce specific antibodies to fight the virus.

                          However, there are also those who do not have
                          a strong immune system, for example the elderly, where infection
                          This 19th COVID cause severe complications and require
                          relief drugs such as antivirals.

                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                          Laboratory tests confirm COVID-19 replay will be carried out to
                          of all cases tested positive, after the patient shows
                          favorable development of clinical symptoms they experienced.

                          This is to ensure that patients had recovered completely
                          and free from viruses COVID-19. It is important to ensure that
                          secure case to be allowed to return and do not infect others.

                          Thank you.


                          Datuk Dr Noor Hisham BIN ABDULLAH
                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                          MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                          February 22, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                          3