PRESS RELEASE
                     DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                                  
          CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
       (COVID-19) IN THE MEETING OF WORKING
        DISEASES CLUSTERS coronavirus (COVID-19) NO. 2 2020
                             5 MAC 2020
        
        
       Just now Working Committee Meeting Coronavirus Disease Cluster
       (COVID-19) No. 2 of 2020, which is chaired by the Chief Secretary
       States have been held with various agencies.
        
       LATEST CASE STATUS COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA
        
       Please be informed that there are five (5) new case (Case 51, Case
       52, the case 53, the case of the 54th, the 55th case) infection Coronavirus Disease
       2019 (COVID-19) were reported to the Crisis Preparedness and Response
       Center (CPRC) Immigration, the Ministry of Health (MOH) on
       today. This brings the cumulative number of positive cases COVID 19th in Malaysia
       until March 5, 2020 at 12.00 noon was 55 cases.
       Of these, a total of 22 people have fully recovered and been
       discharge from the ward.
        
       All of these new cases are related to one (1) cluster COVID-19
       that have been identified previously positive cases involving the 26th. case-
       This case is a positive contact with the victim in the cluster COVID-19
       The. Thus, to date, the number of positive cases in this cluster is
       as many as 26 cases. Investigation and detection of contact for the cluster
       still ongoing.
        
        
        
        
                                                            
             
            CLUSTER MEETING RESULTS OF DISEASE
            Coronavirus (COVID-19) NUMBER 2 YEAR 2020
             
            Given the current status of transmission Covid-19 in Malaysia that have
            entering the 2nd wave, the following measures as have been
            decided:
             
            1. To advise Malaysians to postpone
                   a trip to the city or the following regions:
                   1.1 Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna in Italy;
                   1.2 Hokkaido in Japan; and
                   1.3 Tehran, Qom and Gilan in Iran.
             
            2. The meeting also decided to restrict the influx of
                   all visitors (except citizens, permanent residents, holders
                   social passes and student passes Malaysia) situated or visit
                   city ​​or region within the period of 14 days before
                   arrival in Malaysia.
             
            3. For Malaysians who are in the city or in the region
                   above, they are advised to take precautions,
                   improve health care and always follow instructions
                   issued by the local authorities.
             
            4. Malaysians abroad are also encouraged to sign up
                   the nearest Malaysian Mission. information about
                   Malaysian Embassy abroad can be consulted on the website
                   Ministry of Foreign Affairs in www.kln.gov.my
             
            5. Proclaiming that control facial mask under Regulations
                   Supplies Control Regulations (Prohibition of Export) Order 2020
                   ensure the supply of face masks for use by local people
                   sufficient.
                    
                    
                    
             
                                                                                                         
      
      
     HEALTH ADVICE
      
     To avoid panic in the office when there are cases of positive or
     suspicion among member agencies. MOH advised to
     organizations that have been detected positive cases that do not need
     make closing the office, but sufficient to run cleaning
     and disinfect / disinfect frequently in areas that have always touched.
     Members who are identified as close contacts will be made by the Ministry of Health
     health screening. MOH hope that they can be identified
     calm and always cooperate by giving accurate information
     when contacted or identified as close contacts. At the time of
     Similarly, all parties are required not to pass on any information that
     can cause concern to the public.
      
     Thank you.
      
     COMMISSIONER DR. Noor Hisham Abdullah
     DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
      
     March 5, 2020 @ 5pm