PRESS RELEASE
                                                      DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

                                                                       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                              Coronavirus DISEASE (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA

                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                          There are two (2) new cases reported today.

                          NEW CASES TO-24
                          The case of the 24 was a 41-year-old female citizen
                          Japanese working in Malaysia. He had traveled to
                          Japan in January and also to Indonesia in early February.
                          Patients with symptoms of fever and was treated at 17
                          In February 2020. He was admitted to a private hospital at 20
                          February 2020 Test-19 detection COVID taken for this case and
                          tested positive on 27 February 2020. He is now being treated Diwa d
                          Isolation Hospital Kuala Lumpur.

                          NEW CASES TO-25
                          Case 25 was a 54-year-old Italian citizen
                          who is married to a Malaysian and has lived in
                          Malaysia. He had a history of travel to Italy on business trips
                          from 15 to 21 February 2020. He began experiencing symptoms of fever,
                          cough, sore joints and aching body on 22 February 2020. He
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                          get outpatient treatment for the symptoms experienced
                          for three consecutive days - ie 23 to 25 February 2020. Test
                          detection screening COVID-19 were carried out on him and
                          tested positive on 28 February 2020. He was admitted to the hospital
                          Sungai Buloh Hospital for isolation and treatment monitoring
                          Next.

                          CURRENT STATUS OF TRANSMISSION CASE COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA
                          By reporting the two (2) most recent case, the number of cumulative cases COVID-
                          19 today is 25 cases; that is, fifteen (15) people
                          in the case of Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI), eight (8)
                          among close contacts and two (2) among the people
                          Malaysia brought home the Humanitarian Aid Mission.
                          Of these, fifteen (15) persons were citizens
                          China, seven (7) is a Malaysian citizen and three (3)
                          is the other citizens (namely the United States, Japan and Italy).
                          Of the 25 positive cases, 22 cases were cured and allowed
                          discharge - makes the case that is still being treated at the hospital in
                          when a total of three (3) persons.

                          MEETING OF RESULTS OF CLUSTER
                          COVID-19 WITH VARIOUS AGENCIES
                          COVID Cluster Working Committee meeting of the 19th Joint Miscellaneous
                          Agency co-ordinated by the National Disaster Management Agency
                          (DMA) involving the Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of
                          (KDN), the Immigration Department (JIM), Ministry of Foreign Affairs
                          State (KLN) and other agencies have reviewed the current status COVID-
                          19 worldwide and in Malaysia. Thus, taking into account the status
                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                    COVID-19 during this transmission, the steps as follows
                    it was decided:

                        i. While entry barriers to all visitors of the Republic
                              Korea, including foreign nationals who had been in the city
                              Daegu and Cheongdo area within 14 days before
                              arrivals to Malaysia. This includes visitors who transit through
                              Malaysia;
                       ii. Malaysian citizens, permanent residents and holders of passes (pass
                              long-term social visit passes student) who had been
                              Daegu city and county Cheongdo within 14 days
                              before arrival to Malaysia must undergo a health screening
                              by the Ministry of Health;
                      iii. In order to improve controls on entry points: International
                              State, the Immigration Department (JIM) will include
                              special counters for visitors from the Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and
                              Iran;
                      iv. Ministry of Health continues to monitor closely the development of the incidence of infection
                              COVID-19 in the Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran and the country-
                              Other countries are also reported cases. Currently people
                              Malaysia advised to defer travel to
                              provinces or cities that declared
                              as the epidemic COVID 19th in the People's Republic of China
                              (As mentioned earlier) and also in the Czech
                              Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran;
                      v. The steps above with immediate effect. party
                              Malaysian authorities will make an assessment, always in
                              efforts to control and eliminate outbreaks COVID-19. Step
                              These measures will be revoked if the situation improves.
                                                                                                                                                3
              MoH MoH advise all residents to remain alert to
              the current situation related COVID-19 to strengthen
              preparedness and response to the disease. The public also
              advised, if symptomatic within 14 days after return
              from visiting the People's Republic of China, Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and
              Iran - to inform about the history of the
              Medical Practice going for treatment.

              MOH also urge the public if need explanation
              or more information about this disease, please call the Infoline
              National CPRC through the following channels:

              No. Phone: 03-8881 0200 / 03-8881 0600 / 03-8881 0700
              E-mail: cprc@moh.gov.my

              Thank you.


              Datuk Dr Noor Hisham BIN ABDULLAH
              DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
              MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA

              February 28, 2020

                                                                                               4