PRESS RELEASE
                                                                   MINISTER OF HEALTH

                          LATEST STATISTICS COVID-19 INFECTION IN MALAYSIA

                                 • Ministry of Health (MOH) announced TWO
                                       (2) more cases have fully recovered and discharged
                                       home today.

                                 • Two (2) cases are:

                                              o Case 17th: It is an old woman
                                                    65 and is contact with the victim 9th.
                                                    He was previously at the Sungai Buloh Hospital after confirmed
                                                    positive COVID-19 on February 9, 2020.

                                              o Case 18th: It is a local man, aged 31
                                                    years working in Macau, China. He previously
                                                    treated at the Sungai Buloh Hospital after being tested positive
                                                    COVID-19 on February 9, 2020.

                                 • Accordingly, the number of cases have fully recovered and discharged
                                       so today is 15.

                                 • Ministry of Health also announced today that NO new cases reported
                                       on this day, February 19, 2020.

                                 • The number of cumulative cases COVID-19 reported today
                                       STAY 22 cases with only seven (7) cases are still
                                       warded.




                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                          VIRTUAL HEALTH ADVISORY

                          • For the record, the Virtual Health Advisory is a digital channel
                                 produced in collaboration between the MOH and the platform tele-
                                 namely DoctorOnCall medicine.

                          • This is an initiative of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) of
                                 DoctorOnCall where the public can access to the program
                                 Virtual Advisory Heath for free for a period of 3 months.

                          • Virtual Advisory Heath is one step to
                                 deliver information and reduce public confusion
                                 related diseases COVID 19th.

                          • With this platform, the public can seek advice
                                 of Family Physicians (Family Medicine Specialist) or
                                 Chief medical officer through an online conversation.

                          • The advice is from 8 .30pagi up to 5 .00 pm
                                 Every day. This service is accessible via the Web
                                 www.moh.gov.my. Customers can use the online mobile
                                 / Laptop / tablet / desktop camera.


                          Thank you.

                          YB Datuk Dr. Dzulkefly
                          Minister of Health
                          February 19, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                           2