PRESS RELEASE
                                                      DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                           
                                                                       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                            Coronavirus DISEASE (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA -
                                                               WORLD DREAM BOAT SIGHTSEEING
                           
                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                          The government has been coordinating the arrival and entry of 100 people
                          Malaysian, a subsidiary of World Dream cruise ship, which
                          has docked with the quarantine status in Tanjung Pengelih, Johor.
                          All Malaysian crew has been reduced from
                          ship and made health screening on 22 February 2020, before
                          taken to the Institute of Public Administration (INTAN) Regional Campus
                          South (IKWAS), Kluang, Johor for the purpose of the sampling and surveillance
                          for confirmation tests COVID-19.
                           
                          The results of medical examinations carried out, all 100 crew
                          has no symptoms and confirmation test results COVID-19
                          received on February 23, 2020 is negative. they allowed
                          return to their homes and placed under the command
                          Monitoring and Observation in their homes for 14 days
                          from the date of their entry into Malaysia. The return journey kids
                          this ship to their places have also been arranged either taken
                          by their family members or use the shuttle buses that have been
                          provided.
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                           
                          The Department of State Health and the District Health Office
                          had been informed of the crew involved, and
                          daily health monitoring will be carried out on them. children
                          The crew was advised to comply with the Order
                          Monitoring and Observation in the house which is also the order
                          under Section 15 (1) of the Prevention and Control of Diseases
                          Infectious 1988 (Act 342).
                           
                          Medical Representative cruise ship had also praised
                          government to bring home Malaysian crew members, and
                          informed health screening process that has been carried out is
                          organized and coordinated so well and smoothly.
                           
                          MOH would like to congratulate and thank all
                          agencies such as the Office of the State Secretary of Johor, Police
                          Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Transport,
                          National Security Council, INTAN, Customs Department,
                          Immigration Department of Malaysia, the Malaysian Marine Department, Fire Department and
                          Rescue Department, Civil Defense Forces, Department of
                          Volunteer State, and the SMART team, coordinated by
                          The National Disaster Management Agency (DMA) ensures
                          This screening process is running smoothly. Congratulations also to all members
                          Johor State Health Department, Kota Tinggi District Health Office,
                          Kluang District Health Office and the Public Health Laboratory Johor
                          Bharu that have been fully committed to ensure
                          health screening carried out properly and smoothly.
                           
                           
                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                          MOH also like to remind all the crew and all
                          individuals who have been placed under the supervision and
                          Observations in the house to be responsible for monitoring the status
                          their own health every day and should obey all
                          directives and health advice that was given by the Ministry of Health. it
                          seeks to ensure that individual health is monitored and
                          reduce the risk of transmission to family members and the community.
                           
                          Thank you.
                           
                          Datuk Dr Noor Hisham BIN ABDULLAH
                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                          MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                          February 23, 2020
                           
                                                                                                                                                                                          3