MEDIA STATEMENT
                 OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER



       Today, the Honorable Tan Sri Muhyiddin Hj Mohd Yassin, Prime Minister of Malaysia
       visit the Center for Crisis Preparedness and Response (CPRC) Immigration,
       Ministry of Health (MOH). During the visit, the Prime
       Ministers were briefed on the current status of the epidemic coronavirus 2019 (COVID-
       19) by the Ministry of Health. Also present were the Hon Datuk Seri Mohd Zuki bin Ali, Chairman
       Secretary of State, and other agencies concerned. after a visit
       The Prime Minister was chairing a meeting
       coordination to discuss the current situation COVID-19 in Malaysia.

       The Malaysian government is always on high alert and have kaedah-
       method to handle this situation if the event COVID 19th in Malaysia
       become more serious. The Malaysian government will continue to enhance the capacity of
       existing in the various Ministries and agencies in preparation
       the possibility of occurrence COVID-19 situation more acute. This includes
       improve aspects of human resources, laboratory facilities, health clinics and
       hospital to treat cases COVID-19. The Malaysian government is also in the pipeline
       to make the Sungai Buloh Hospital as a hospital dedicated to treating
       COVID-19 case. Recently, the Ministry of Health is also working with the private sector
       COVID-19 handles this situation.


       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION COVID-19

       Please be informed that there are 12 new cases of the COVID 19th
       reported to the CPRC, the Ministry of Health today (10 March 2020). With an increase of 12
       new cases, bringing the total cumulative COVID-19 positive cases in Malaysia
       is a total of 129 cases. Positive cases are among Patient-
       Under-Investigation (PUI) COVID-19 infection, close contacts and Assistance Mission
       Humanity. One case, which is the 87th case has recovered and discharged from

       hospital. This makes a total of 25 people so far have been fully restored and
       discharge from the ward.


       RELATED HEALTH ADVICE COVID-19

       Malaysians who are symptomatic are advised not to visit the place-
       solid place with people. Keep a distance of at least one
       meters when dealing with others.

       Similarly, Malaysians are reminded to take care of themselves,
       families and communities to adopt preventive measures
       following:

       • Always practice a high level of personal hygiene such as frequent washing
       hands with soap and water or detergent (hand
       sanitiser);

       • Always practice cough etiquette (cough etiquette) is good, that is close
       mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing, the next
       wash hands immediately;

       • Immediately seek medical attention if ill (ie experience
       upper respiratory tract infection symptoms such as fever, cough or difficulty
       breathing) within 14 days after returning from a tour of countries
       affected. Likewise, inform about the history of the country
       which involved the doctor.

       Congratulations to all the firemen and Civil Service work
       and private sectors involved directly and indirectly in
       COVID-19 deal with events in Malaysia. Malaysians urged to not
       spreading false news or news that is not valid on the spread
       COVID-19. This is because it can cause anxiety and delirium
       among the people.

       The development of the incidence of infection will continue to be monitored by the Malaysian government.
       The public will be kept informed from time to time on
       the latest development.

       Thank you.


       Prime Minister's Office
       March 10, 2020