PRESS RELEASE
                                                                   MINISTER OF HEALTH

                                                                        CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                         2019 NOVEL coronavirus (2019-COV) IN MALAYSIA


                          VIDEO CONFERENCE WITH MINISTER OF HEALTH SINGAPORE

                                 • Ministry of Health (MOH) announced a
                                       sessions 'video conference' bilateral involving Health Minister
                                       Malaysia and Singapore have been held on this evening.

                                 • It is accompanied by senior officials from both the Ministry of
                                       parties.

                                 • The discussion centers around the situation during the incident
                                       2019-Cov infection in Malaysia and Singapore, as well as step-
                                       appropriate measures implemented to deal with incidents
                                       infection, especially through the strengthening of cooperation
                                       existing.

                                 • Through the session, a number of things
                                       as is agreed by both sides:

                                              o Setting up of a Joint Working Committee
                                                    led by the Deputy Minister of Health and
                                                    Singapore.

                                              o The objective of its establishment is to strengthen
                                                    various cross-border trade between the two countries and
                                                    mutually agreed.

                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                              o Senior officials from Malaysia and Singapore
                                                    work together and continue discussions within
                                                    soon to identify the terms of reference for the
                                                    Joint Working Committee.

                                 • The focus of bilateral cooperation are as follows:

                                                        a. The sharing of information in the field of public health,
                                                              medical, and research to ensure the transmission of
                                                              2019-Cov infection addressed effectively.

                                                        b. Screening and management of cross-border cases
                                                              Malaysia-Singapore

                                                        c. Standardizing indication for drug use anitiviral
                                                              patients who tested positive in 2019-cov.

                                 • Identify responsible officer (contact person) at
                                       the two ministries for the purpose of communication
                                       2019-cov case management and contact tracing meeting.


                          CURRENT STATUS 2019-cov INFECTION IN MALAYSIA

                                 • Ministry of Health would like to inform that NO new cases reported in
                                       today, bringing the cumulative number of cases in 2019, which cov
                                       PERMANENT reported today a total of 18 cases;

                                              o The eight (8) cases among cases Patient-under-
                                                    Investigation (PUI) 2019 infection-cov
                                              o The eight (8) cases among close contacts
                                              o Two (2) cases among Malaysians brought
                                                    return with Humanitarian Aid Mission.


                                 • Of these too:

                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                              o Twelve (12) cases were citizens of China
                                              o Six (6) is a Malaysian citizen.

                                 • Of the twelve (12) positive cases among citizens
                                       China, three (3) cases were discharged from hospital.

                                 • They have been tested for the detection of recurrence and 2019-cov
                                       tested negative on two (2) times in a row.

                                 • To date, activities still continue tracking closely contacts
                                       again to determine the contact with the victim.

                                 • A total of 106 close contacts have been identified and this number will
                                       grew up close contact tracing is completed.

                                              o 60 close contacts consist of citizens
                                              o 46 further comprising nationals of China.

                                 • All the close contacts that have been detected, the sample was taken
                                       and placed in the Order of Supervision and Observation.

                                 • Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection
                                       through information obtained from the WHO.

                                 • The public will be kept informed of any developments
                                       Last thereon. Similarly, the MOH will ensure steps
                                       prevention and control measures implemented
                                       ongoing.

                          Thank you

                          YB Datuk Dr. Dzulkefly
                          Minister of Health

                          February 10, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                           3