PRESS RELEASE
                                                                   MINISTER OF HEALTH
                            
                           Teleconference WITH DIRECTOR GENERAL OF WHO
                            
                                  Please be advised that a teleconference was held
                                        this afternoon with Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Chair
                                        Director of the World Health Organization (WHO).
                                         
                                  During the teleconference, Dr. Tedros praised the preparedness and
                                        Malaysia's capabilities in handling COVID-19 infection and
                                        WHO also considers the high public health.
                            
                                  The WHO recommended that Malaysia strengthen
                                        influenza surveillance activities by conducting tests COVID-19
                                        patients severe acute respiratory infection (SARI).
                                              o Ministry of Health (MOH) reported
                                                     to the WHO that the MOH has expanded surveillance
                                                     respiratory tract infections by running tests
                                                     COVID-19.
                                                      
                                  Ministry of Health will continue to work with WHO and parties
                                        involved.
                            
                           CURRENT SITUATION COVID-19 INFECTION IN MALAYSIA
                            
                                  Ministry of Health (MOH) announced
                                        that all Malaysians and 107 family members
                                        brought home from Wuhan, China through the Assistance Mission
                                        Humanity on February 4, 2020, will be allowed to return to
                                        their homes after completing a period of monitoring
                                        The Monitoring Center on Higher Education Leadership Academy
                                        (AKEPT).
                                              o Sample replicates were tested negative for them.
                            
                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                  However, one of them being received
                                        treatment in hospital for health issues experienced by him.
                            
                                  They were allowed to go home today, including two (2) case
                                        the previously positive COVID-19 and treated at Hospital Tuanku
                                        Jaafar, Seremban.
                            
                                              o The case is the case of the 11th and 12th:
                                                      
                                                            The case involved a 11th-boys
                                                                  aged 9 years.
                                                            Case 12th is the father of the 11 cases,
                                                                  45 years old.
                                                            For both of these cases, they have received
                                                                  treatment in hospital and underwent tests detection
                                                                  repeated twice in a row and
                                                                  the results were negative.
                            
                                  The Ministry of Health would like to congratulate the
                                        all agencies involved in the success of this mission.
                                  
                           LATEST STATISTICS COVID-19 INFECTION IN MALAYSIA
                            
                                  Accordingly, the number of cases of infection have been discharged
                                        from ward to this day is eleven (11) cases.
                                         
                                  Ministry of Health also announced today that NO new cases reported
                                        on this day, February 18, 2020.
                                  
                                              o Accordingly, the cumulative number of cases COVID 19th
                                                     today reported 22 cases STAY
                                                     with only 11 cases being treated in hospitals.
                            
                                  Of the total 22 cases reported:
                                         
                                              o 12 cases among case-Patient-Under Investigation
                                                     (PUI)
                                              o The eight (8) cases among close contacts
                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                              o Two (2) cases among Malaysians brought
                                                     return with Humanitarian Aid Mission.
                            
                                  Of the total 22 cases it also:
                                         
                                              o 15 people were citizens of China
                                              o Six (6) The person is a citizen of Malaysia
                                              o One (1) is a citizen of the United States.
                                                      
                                  As of February 18, 2020:
                            
                                              o A total of 583 Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI) reported
                                                     to CPRC
                                              o For contact with the positive cases, 230 cases
                                                     detected were negative and 13 cases are still pending
                                                     laboratory results.
                            
                            
                           Thank you.
                            
                           YB Datuk Dr. Dzulkefly
                           Minister of Health
                           February 18, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                           3