PRESS RELEASE
                   DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

            CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                           (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA


         Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
         There is one (1) new cases of Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
         reported today, bringing the cumulative number of cases COVID 19th
         reported so far were 19 cases, namely:
              Nine (9) cases among case-Patient-Under Investigation
            •
              (PUI);
              The eight (8) cases among close contacts;
            •
              Two (2) cases among Malaysians brought home
            •
              through the Humanitarian Aid Mission.

         Of these too:
              Thirteen (13) cases of Chinese citizens;
            •
              Six (6) is a Malaysian citizen.
            •

         The number of cases discharged from the ward is three (3).

         For close contacts, a total of 223 individuals have been identified. so that
         now, contact tracing activities still continued to rally
         identify contact with the victim.

                                                                 1


         NEW CASES TO-19

         A woman aged 39 years old Chinese citizen who is
         friends to the case of the 14th and the 16th son of the case; now both
         being treated in the isolation ward of Hospital Kuala Lumpur (HKL).

         He along with four (4) other persons who have arrived in Malaysia
         of Wuhan, China on January 25, 2020. Once the two (2) case
         Previous tested positive (ie case 14 and the case-16), respectively
         February 5 and February 7, 2020, he was placed under the command
         Surveillance and Monitoring.

         The results of the monitoring activities are carried out continuously to the top
         by the District Health Office (DHO) found his start
         have symptoms of fever and cough on February 12, 2020. He was
         referred to the hospital to be admitted for treatment and
         further investigation. Detection and confirmation tests COVID-19
         carried thereon was reported positive on the same day.
         She has now admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital and was in
         stable condition.

         Psychosocial MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT SERVICES (MHPSS)

         MOH also has mobilized teams of Mental Health and Support
         Psychosocial (MHPSS) since February 6, 2020 following the Assistance Mission
         Humanities to bring home Malaysians and family members
         them from Wuhan, China. This team provides services
         psychosocial support to individuals who are placed under
         Monitoring Command, to Chief Officers and other agencies that
                                                               2


         get involved. Activities include basic psychological support sessions
         (Psychological first aid; PFA) groups and individuals, as well as counseling and
         referral to a specialist if necessary. Currently, there are two (2) case
         were referred for further treatment due to acute stress and
         anxiety. They were given medication and is in a state
         stable.

         PFA also be given to health personnel who served in
         field, which includes medical personnel who handle cases
         isolation wards of hospitals identified.

         In this regard, the Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the progress of events
         This infection through information obtained from the Organization
         World Health Organization (WHO). The public will be kept informed
         any latest developments. Similarly, the Ministry of Health will
         ensure prevention and control measures
         ongoing.

         Thank you

         COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
         DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

         February 13, 2020

                                                              3