MEDIA STATEMENT
                 OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER



       The Prime Minister today held a meeting to get information
       full of economic and fiscal position of the country and the latest available
       novel coronavirus outbreak.

       MEETING OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMIC AND FISCAL POSITION
       The Prime Minister had a meeting with the Honorable Tan Sri Chairman
       Secretary of State, Secretary General of the Treasury and the Secretary General
       Ministry of Economic Affairs. The meeting was also attended by senior officials
       from the ministry. In that session, the Prime Minister has been given
       a description of the current economic situation, the country's fiscal position and debt
       as well as measures Economic Stimulus Package (PRE) recently announced.

       The Prime Minister also stressed on the implementation of spending more
       prudent and reduce leakages to ensure financial position
       country remain strong. In addition, the position of the debts and liabilities of Government is given
       attention and every project to be implemented need to be refined so as not
       onerous financial commitment and government debt. The Prime Minister also
       The annual budget allocation of the view should be brought
       big return to economic growth and generate income citizens
       countries. Therefore, the effectiveness of government programs and projects should
       enhanced so that any public money spent can
       benefit fully to national development and
       welfare of the people.


       In this regard, the Prime Minister has directed that the Government machinery
       take it seriously to implement and accelerate the implementation of
       Budget 2020 measures and the PRE. The discussion also focused on the agenda
       to strengthen domestic economic activity and ensure the welfare of the people,
       further boost the country's economy to a more competitive level.

       In respect of PRE measures, the Ministry of Finance must ensure
       implementation of all the initiatives up and running immediately and monitor
       the overall impact and performance of this stimulus measures.

       STATUS coronavirus BRIEFING BY TASK FORCE
       HEALTH MINISTRY
       Prime minister then held talks with
       Chief Secretary, the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Chairman
       Director of the National Disaster Management Agency (DMA), the Director General
       Health Ministry of Health, Director General of the National Security Council and the Director General
       Immigration Department on the current status of the novel coronavirus outbreak.

       As of 8:00 am, March 3, 2020, the total number of cases COVID-19 is
       of 90.306 cases involving 70 countries reported. A total of 45,603
       (50.5%) cases cured and 3,084 (3.4%) deaths.

       There are seven (7) new cases reported in Malaysia today, 3 March 2020. By
       In addition, there are currently 36 cases were recorded in which so far the number of cases cured is 22
       (61.1%). A total of 14 cases are still being treated at the Sungai Buloh Hospital and Hospital
       Kuala Lumpur. All cases were treated in the ward is in stable condition.

       Please be advised that two humanitarian mission to bring home
       Malaysians with dependents (spouse / children) of Wuhan, China


       implemented and coordinated by the DMA with the Ministry of Health and
       relevant agencies. In the first mission, 107 citizens and
       bail was brought home on February 4, 2020 and was completed
       health screening for 14 days in the Higher Education Leadership Academy
       (AKEPT) on February 18, 2020. All 107 tested negative.

       In the second mission, a total of 68 citizens and dependents who brought
       back from Wuhan undergoing health screening in AKEPT starting February 26
       until 11 March 2020.

       On February 22, 2020, a total of 100 crew members of a Malaysian Dream World
       Cruise underwent health screening at INTAN Southern Regional (IKWAS).
       They all tested negative and were undergoing home-surveillance for 14
       day in their homes.

       Please be informed that the Working Committee on COVID 19th
       chaired by the Chief Secretary meets regularly to
       examine the status of the current situation and take action to curb the spread
       COVID-19.

       The Prime Minister is satisfied with Government agencies that have
       do a good job in managing the spread COVID-19 and
       to express our appreciation to all those involved, especially the staff
       forefront and medical staff. The Prime Minister also
       ordered that the Special Task Force continues to monitor the status and efforts
       prevention COVID-19 to ensure the well-being of Malaysians.

       The Prime Minister advised the people not to panic with
       do panic-buying and always take precautions
       health as outlined by the Ministry of Health.
       Those who visit the country at risk, such as China, South Korea, Japan and
       Italy must comply with health and travel advisories issued and
       immediately to the hospital / clinic if you have symptoms such as cough, fever and
       difficulty breathing.


       OFFICE OF THE PRIME MINISTER
       March 3, 2020