PRESS RELEASE
                                                      DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

                                                                       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                              Coronavirus DISEASE (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA

                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                          today, there are two (2) cases were confirmed positive for diseases
                          Coronavirus 2019 (COVID-19) has been fully recovered, while
                          There is one (1) new cases that have been reported to the Crisis
                          Preparedness and Response Center (CPRC) ethnicity.

                          CONFIRMED CASES COVID-19 HAS RECOVERED
                          Recently, the Ministry of Health would like to inform the two (2) cases that is the case and the case of the 16 th
                          22 confirmed positive COVID-19 had previously been fully recovered
                          and allowed to discharge from the hospital today. The case is the 16th
                          a Chinese nationals aged 67 who get
                          Kuala Lumpur Hospital for treatment. While the case of the 22 is a
                          US citizens who received treatment at the Hospital
                          Sungai Buloh. Thus, a total of 22 people have fully recovered and
                          has been discharged from hospital.




                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                          NEW CASES TO-23
                          The 23rd case is a woman aged 53 years of age
                          Malaysia. He had traveled to Japan new-
                          This new. Upon returning from Japan on February 23, 2020, the patient was
                          began to have a fever the next day and have
                          received treatment at a hospital in Kuala Lumpur. detection test
                          COVID-19 taken for this case and confirmed positive on February 27
                          2020.

                          As of February 27, 2020, a total of 1,569 individuals were sampled
                          for detection COVID-19. They consist of a Patient-under-
                          Investigation (PUI), close contacts, and the ship Humanitarian Aid Mission
                          Sightseeing Dream World. Of these, a total of 23 confirmed cases
                          positive COVID-19, a total of 1,523 were negative and 23 are still
                          waiting for lab results.

                          Humanitarian Aid Mission TO-2
                          A total of 66 individuals (46 Malaysians and 20 not
                          Malaysian citizen who is their spouse or children)
                          has been brought back from Wuhan, China through the Humanitarian Aid Mission
                          to-2 on February 26, 2020. Upon arrival in Malaysia, they have
                          undergo health screening and clinical samples have been taken to
                          detection COVID-19 (entry screening). The result of the screening, there is no
                          individuals who are asymptomatic and laboratory results for all 66 individuals
                          The COVID-19 tested negative. Then they are placed in
                          monitoring center to undergo health monitoring for 14 days.



                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                    RELATED HEALTH ADVICE COVID-19
                    Ministry of Health would like to inform until February 27, 2020 at 8:00 am,
                    a total of 81.398 cases COVID-19 involving 2,770 deaths
                    reported worldwide. Of these, 4% (3,200 cases)
                    reported outside the People's Republic of China involving 52 deaths.
                    Instead of monitoring conducted, found Republic of Korea, Japan,
Italy and Iran showed an increase in cases of significant
                    one week ago.

                    Based on the current situation COVID-19 in Malaysia and development
                    Last globally, the Ministry of Health would like to advise you to maintain
                    health, family and society at large. Thus, the Ministry of Health
                    would advise Malaysians to postpone
                    travel to the provinces or cities
                    declared a pandemic COVID 19th in the People's Republic
                    China (as mentioned earlier) and also in the Czech
                    Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran.

                    Similarly, the public is reminded to adopt measures
                    The following preventive measures, especially to travelers
                    while in these countries, and after returning to
                    Malaysia:

                        i. Always practice a high level of personal hygiene such as frequent
                              wash hands with soap and water or materials
                              hand wash (hand sanitizer);

                                                                                                                                                3
                       ii. Always practice cough etiquette (cough etiquette) is good,
                                namely cover your mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or
                                sneezing, so wash your hands immediately;

                       iii. During the visit, always carry with
                                mask (face mask) and sanitisers
                                (Hand sanitizer) to be used when necessary;

                      iv. During the visit, refrain from visiting places
                                concentration of people and do not associate closely with any individual
                                symptomatic;

                       v. During the visit, avoid visits to the farm
                                animals, markets selling live animals, sacrificed
                                animals or touch any kind of animal;

                      vi. During the visit, refrain from taking (ie
                                eating or drinking) any raw animal products /
                                not thoroughly cooked;

                     vii. Immediately seek medical attention if ill (ie
                                have symptoms of respiratory tract infection such as fever,
                                cough or difficulty breathing) within 14 days
                                after returning from the trip. Likewise, please let
                                about the history of the countries involved to
                                the attending physician.
                                                                                                                                                     4
                          Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
                          information obtained from the WHO. People will
                          always informed of latest developments.
                          Similarly, the MOH will ensure that preventive and control measures
                          which should be implemented continuously.

                          Thank you.

                          Datuk Dr Noor Hisham BIN ABDULLAH
                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                          MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA

                          February 27, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                          5