PRESS RELEASE
                                                                   MINISTER OF HEALTH

                                                                       CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION
                                        2019 NOVEL coronavirus (2019-COV) IN MALAYSIA

                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                          There is one (1) an increase in positive cases of novel coronavirus 2019
                          (2019-COV) among close contacts reported on January 30
                          2020. This brings the cumulative number of positive cases in 2019, which cov
                          reported in 2020 until today is a total of eight (8)
                          case; which consists of three (3) cases previously reported in
                          Under the case-Patient Investigation (PUI) 2019 infection-cov
                          and five (5) cases previously among close contacts.
                          All positive cases in 2019-this cov is made up of citizens
                          China.

                          The latest case reported positive among close contacts is
                          was the wife of cases reported in 2019-Cov in Johor
                          29 January 2020. The case was 49 years old, a citizen of China,
                          who was admitted to the isolation of Hospital Permai, Johor and
                          reported in stable condition.

                          As of January 10, 2020 until January 30, 2020 at 12
                          noon, the cumulative number of cases of infection in 2019 PUI-COV is 94
                          people; in which 48 people were Malaysian, 43
                          Chinese citizen and each one (1) citizen Jordon,
                          Brazil and Thailand. Three (3) cases have been confirmed positive for 2019-Cov, 84
                          negative cases and seven (7) are still waiting for the lab results.

                          A total of 32 people had contact with the positive case was in 2019-cov
                          identified and placed under surveillance observation. from
                          Of these, a total of five (5) cases of close contacts was approved
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
              COV 2019-positive infections and has put in isolation wards
              Hospital Sungai Buloh (4) and Hospital Permai (1). All positive cases
              among close contacts are in stable condition.
              Whereas laboratory tests on 27 other close contacts found to be negative
              2019-Cov infection. However, close contacts have been
              first placed under the command and monitoring
              Isolation and closely watched by the MOH.

              MOH always ensure preparedness and response to pandemic
              infectious diseases can be carried out quickly and well. capacity
              and enhanced existing capabilities to address the incident
              2019-this cov infections as informed earlier
              this. In addition, to further strengthen the case detection activities
              suspected, the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Education Malaysia
              collaborated identify students or lecturers who went on vacation
              of China. Those who have been identified will be placed in
              Under monitoring at home (home surveillance) and given Cards
              Home Health Warning and Assessment Tool. If they have
              symptoms, students or lecturers will be referred to a facility
              health has been identified immediately.

              The Special Committee for Humanitarian Aid Mission has
              activated on 30 January 2020. The committee is coordinated by
              The National Disaster Management Agency (DMA) along with
              Ministry of Foreign Affairs (KLN) and the Ministry of Health. It also involves agensi-
              other relevant agencies and airline AirAsia and
              Malaysia Airlines. The Committee was established to look into the matter
              the matter needs to bring back Malaysians
              families residing in Hubei province, China. a committee
              Technical Special Committee established under the
              detailing the management to bring back Malaysians, including
              aturgerak the aid mission management. Party KLN am
              collect the actual number of Malaysians who will be brought back to
              Malaysia. KLN party also continued discussions with
              the Chinese government for the aid.

                                                                                               2
                          In addition, the public is advised to defer travel
                          or a visit to China next continue to practice level
                          high hygiene such as frequent hand washing with water and
                          soap, and seek immediate medical attention if fall
                          pain (ie symptoms such as upper respiratory tract infection
                          fever, cough or difficulty breathing) within 14
                          day after returning from a trip to China. Inform also
                          the relevant travel history to the doctor.
                          All medical practitioners, whether from government health facilities
                          or private shall immediately report suspected cases of 2019-
                          COV using existing reporting to the Ministry of Health.

                          Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
                          information obtained from the WHO. People will
                          always informed of latest developments.
                          Similarly, the MOH will ensure that preventive and control measures
                          which should be implemented continuously.

                          Thank you.


                          YB Datuk Dr. Dzulkefly
                          Minister of Health

                          January 30, 2020

                                                                                                                                                                                          3