PRESS RELEASE
                                                       DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                           
                                   DETECTION OF NEW CASES CONFIRMED INFECTIONS
                                         2019 NOVEL coronavirus (2019-COV) IN MALAYSIA
                           
                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced on
                          detection of one (1) more confirmed cases of infection with the novel 2019
                          coronavirus (2019-COV). This case had nothing to do
                          with three (3) positive cases had been reported earlier in the day.
                           
                          The latest case was a 40-year-old man coming
                          of Wuhan, China. The case arrived at Johor Bahru on 22 January 2020 with
                          bus ride from Singapore. The case came with a group of tourists
                          About 17 Chinese citizens all; which also comprises
                          wife and a son. The case began to experience symptoms of fever on 23
                          January 2020 and the next day she went to get
                          treatment at a private hospital nearby. He goes on
                          has referred to the private hospital to receive treatment
                          Further under the care of the Infectious Diseases Hospital Medical Team
                          Sultanah Aminah, Johor Bahru. Tests for the detection and confirmation
                          The case was sent to the Institute for Medical Research (IMR). on
                          January 25, 2020 afternoon, the Crisis Preparedness and Response Center
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                     (CPRC) has received a national sample of patients reporting that
                     were found to be positive in 2019-cov.
                      
                     At this point the case is still cold and cough, but he was in
                     stable condition. The Department of Health (SHD) Johor
                     act quickly to locate the 17 contacts darpadai
                     The same tour group is accompanied by case and do
                     health screening to check their health status. result
                     screening found they did not have a fever and did not have any
                     symptoms of infection. The next clinical samples have been taken in the
                     The contact for testing and validation of detection
                     2019-Cov in NPHL Sungai Buloh. Each contact is next
                     was placed under the monitoring and isolation in
                     the space provided while waiting for test results
                     carried out on them.
                      
                     Currently the Ministry of Health would like to suggest to the public that wants to
                     China state visit to postpone their journey except
                     to important matters that can not be avoided. Similarly, people
                     are reminded to adopt preventive measures
                     The following, in particular to the pilgrims during their stay in the country
                     China and after return to Malaysia:
                      
                        i. Always practice a high level of personal hygiene such as frequent
                               wash hands with soap and water or materials
                               hand wash (hand sanitizer);
                       ii. During the visit, always carry with
                               mask (face mask) and sanitisers
                               (Hand sanitizer) to be used when necessary;
                                                                                                                                                2
                       iii. During the visit, avoid visiting
                                Interest crowded and mingle closely with any
                                individuals who are asymptomatic;
                       iv. During the visit, avoid visits to
                                Animal farm, markets selling live animals, where
                                butchering animals or touch any kind of animal;
                        v. During the visit, avoid eating
                                any raw animal products / not thoroughly cooked;
                       vi. Immediately seek medical attention if ill (ie
                                have symptoms of respiratory tract infection such as fever,
                                cough or difficulty breathing) within 14 days
                                after returning from the trip. Likewise, please let
                                the relevant travel history to the doctor
                                treat.
                                  
                      Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
                      information obtained from the World Health Organization
                      (WHO). The public will be kept informed of any
                      latest developments. Similarly, the MOH will ensure
                      prevention and control measures implemented
                      ongoing.
                       
                       
                      COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
                      DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                      MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                      January 25, 2020
                                                                                                                                                         3