PRESS RELEASE
                                                                   MINISTER OF HEALTH
                            
                                          CURRENT SITUATION COVID-19 INFECTION IN MALAYSIA
                            
                           CURRENT STATUS COVID-19 INFECTION IN MALAYSIA
                            
                                  Ministry of Health (MOH) announced a
                                        (1) cases that were cured and discharged
                                        Today on February 17, 2020.
                                         
                                              o The case is Case-9, involving a man
                                                     Malaysian citizens aged 41 years, formerly
                                                     treated at the Sungai Buloh Hospital.
                                              o He is also the first Malaysian
                                                     tested positive for the infection COVID-19.
                                         
                                  In this regard, the Ministry of Health would like to inform you that NO
                                        new cases reported today, 17 February 2020.
                                  
                                              o The number of cumulative cases reported COVID-19 up
                                                     today STAY 22 cases in which only 13 cases
                                                     are being treated in hospitals.
                            
                                  Of the total 22 cases reported:
                                         
                                              o 12 cases among case-Patient-Under Investigation
                                                     (PUI)
                                              o The eight (8) cases among close contacts
                                              o Two (2) cases among Malaysians brought
                                                     return with Humanitarian Aid Mission.
                            
                            
                                                                                                                                                                                           1
                                  Of the total 22 cases it also:
                                         
                                              o 15 people were citizens of China
                                              o Six (6) The person is a citizen of Malaysia
                                              o One (1) is a citizen of the United States.
                                               
                                  Of the 22 positive cases, 19 were detected COVID in Malaysia:
                                         
                                              o Nine (9) cases were discharged from hospital.
                                              o They have been tested for the detection of recurrence COVID-
                                                     19 and found to be negative for two (2) times in a row.
                            
                           PATIENT-UNDER-INVESTIGATION (PUI) AND DETECTION
                           CONTACT mEETING
                            
                                  As of February 17, 2020:
                            
                                              o A total of 557 Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI) reported
                                                     to CPRC
                                              o A total of 316 close contacts have been identified.
                            
                                  Ministry of Health would like to take this opportunity to thank
                                        Thanks to all the staff of the Ministry of Health have been working hard
                                        in handling the incident COVID-19 in Malaysia.
                            
                           COMMITMENT MOH
                            
                                  As a press release issued by the Honorable
                                        Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia yesterday regarding a
                                        US citizen women who tested positive
                                        COVID-19 infection.
                            
                                  Communication with Cambodia was done through
                                        International Health Regulations (IHR) Focal Point Malaysia,
                                        IHR Focal Point where Malaysia has in relation to the IHR
                                        Focal Point Cambodia since February 14, 2020, before a positive case
                                        This is detected.
                                                                                                                                                                                           2
                                  On this evening, I have made teleconferences (teleconference)
                                        together with the Ministry of Health of Cambodia, H.E. Prof. Mam
                                        Bunheng, to strengthen cooperation between the two countries
                                        in order to address the incidence of infection COVID 19th.
                                         
                                  In the teleconference, I have informed her
                                        that the patient is a citizen of the United States
                                        shows the level of improved health. I also
                                        informed that the confirmation test was repeated COVID-19
                                        conducted in accordance with the procedure laid down and found
                                        still positive.
                                         
                                  I and the Minister of Health of Cambodia hope the situation
                                        improved patient health.
                            
                                  Ministry of Health will continue to work closely with all States
                                        involved and the WHO in case management COVID-19
                                        and coordination of information for carrying out the activity detection
                                        Contact the meeting.
                            
                                  Ministry of Health would like to take this opportunity to thank
                                        Thanks to the Honorable Prime Minister of Malaysia,
                                        The Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia and
                                        agencies involved directly or indirectly
                                        in handling the incident COVID-19.
                            
                                  Co-operation and support given to the Ministry of Health
                                        greatly appreciated.
                            
                                  Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection
                                        through information obtained from the WHO.
                            
                                  The public will be kept informed of any developments
                                        Last thereon. Similarly, the MOH will ensure steps
                                        prevention and control measures implemented
                                        ongoing.
                            
                                                                                                                                                                                           3
                            
                           Thank you.
                            
                           YB Datuk Dr. Dzulkefly
                           Minister of Health
                            
                           February 17, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                           4