PRESS RELEASE
                                                       DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                           
                                                           CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION COVID-19
                                         DETECTION AND NEW CASES TO-22 IN MALAYSIA
                                                                                                             
                           
                          Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
                          There is one (1) an increase in new cases reported today.
                           
                          NEW CASES TO-22
                           
                          The 22nd case is a woman aged 83 years of age
                          United States of America. He was one of the passenger ships
                          The cruise was docked in Cambodia on February 13, 2020. All
                          Passengers and crew were allowed to return to their own countries
                          respectively, by the Cambodian government announced that after screening
                          health has been carried out on them.
                           
                          A total of 145 passenger cruise ship that took
                          flights to Malaysia on 14 February 2020. Of
                          that she and her husband have been detected in symptomatic upon arrival
                          Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA) and referred to
                          Sungai Buloh Hospital for a check-up. Preliminary test
                          detection COVID-19 was conducted by the Research Institute
                          Malaysian Medical Research (IMR) and were confirmed positive on February 15
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                          2020. He is currently in stable condition and being treated in the isolation ward
                          hospital.
                           
                          Currently, the detection test COVID-19 for her age
                          85 years old and a citizen of the United States is negative. However,
                          husband is still receiving treatment and monitoring in Hospital
                          Sungai Buloh for her symptoms.
                           
                           
                          CAPACITY TO DETECT IMR-19 COVID
                           
                          For information, IMR laboratory is the reference laboratory identified
                          by the World Health Organization (WHO) for disease eradication and
                          influenza. The lab is also the first laboratory involved
                          directly in carrying out diagnostic tests to detect
                          COVID-19 in Malaysia. It has started preparations
                          any possibility of transmission COVID-19 to Malaysia since January 3
                          2020 again where reagents to detect the coronavirus with
                          Conventional methods using RT-PCR was prepared.
                          Subsequently, on January 11, 2020 when scientists from China
                          share genetic information COVID-19 Virology Unit IMR
                          inventive reagent sequences called "primers and probes
                          specific for COVID-19 "on the same day. The protocol has been
                          used by IMR is also in line with the protocols of real time RT-PCR
                          COVID-19 issued by WHO, according to Corman et al.,
                          2020.
                           
                           
                                                                                                                                                                                          2
                          MOH will continue to strengthen preparedness and response activities for
                          facing the spread COVID-19 in Malaysia. Similarly,
                          Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
                          information obtained from the various parties involved. People
                          The public will be kept informed of the latest developments
                          about it. MOH will ensure that preventive and control measures
                          which should be implemented continuously.
                           
                           
                          Thank you.
                           
                           
                          COMMISSIONER DR. Noor Hisham Abdullah
                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                          February 15, 2020
                           
                           
                           
                                                                                                                                                                                          3