PRESS RELEASE
                            MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA

               CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                                    (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA
                                           4 MAC 2020

          LATEST CASE STATUS COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA

          The Ministry of Health would like to inform that as of 12 noon
          March 4, 2020, there have been reported.
                                14 new cases

          As informed earlier, the infection
                                                         the first wave
          Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVDI-19) in the cover
                                                                                  22 cases
          positive COVID-19 (ie, the first case so that the case of the 22) were healthy and

          discharge.

          After 11 days of no new cases were reported, starting at
                                                       the second wave
          27 February 2020. For the second wave until March 4, 2020, there
          There were 28 positive cases COVID-19 (which is the case of the 23rd until the 50th case) that
          have been reported.

          This brings the total number of positive cases COVID-19 in Malaysia is 50
          case.

          CLUSTER COVID-19

          For this second wave, there is one (1) cluster COVID 19th
          identified. The Cluster involves 26 th positive cases. based on the investigation
          and contact tracing performed up to now, there are 215
          close contacts were traced. Out of the meeting contact, 16 cases
          COVID-19 tested positive, 19 were negative and 180 pending.



                Available five (5) cases are close contacts to some positive cases
                among 16 cases (close contacts of cases to 26).

                This brings the total number of positive cases for this cluster were 21 cases (ie
                the case of the 30th until the 50th case).

                Based on the latest information available, the case has been positive 26th
                attend some activities. Of the 16 positive cases detected were found:

                    i. one (1) case to the case of an officer of the 26th;

                   ii. 15 cases have been attending events with the 26th case, where some
                          of them have attended more than one (1) activity
                          with the case of the 26th;


                Activities which brought together are as follows:

                    i. For the first activity, a total of eight (8) contact meetings attended
                          activity. Six (6) out of which tested positive.
                          And two (2) is negative.

                   ii. For the second activity, a total of 10 meetings attended events contact
                          The. Four (4) of the detected positive, two (2)
                          negative and four (4) pending.

                  iii. For the third activity, a total of 15 contact meetings attended events
                          The. Ten (10) of which tested positive, four
                          (4) negative and one (1) pending.

                  iv. For the fourth activity, a total of 21 contact meetings attended events
                          The. One (1) of which tested positive, 11 negative
                          and nine (9) pending.

                  v. For all activities involving seven (7) contact meetings and one (1)
                          tested positive. Meanwhile, six (6) is negative.



                Ministry of Health would like to inform that the investigation of this cluster still
                continued. In this regard, the Ministry of Health hopes that all parties to remain calm and
                always cooperate by giving accurate information when
                contacted or identified as close contacts. MOH also want
                advised the organization that was detected positive cases from
                should make closing the office, but adequate disinfection.
                At the same time, all parties are required not to pass on any
                information that could cause concern to the public.


                                                                              VIRTUAL HEALTH ADVISORY
                collaboration TO
                  DOCTORONCALL BOOKDOC
                () AND

                Ministry of Health would like to inform if there is any question or doubt
                about the incident COVID-19, the public can visit www.moh.gov.my
                (A doctor) to get advice from a physician
                family for the next action.

                If there is a history course, the general public is not directly applied to
                went to government facilities. However, it is advisable to get advice
                advance health through the virtual health advisory or Crisis
                Preparedness and Response Center (CPRC) hotline. The public can
                access to the service as follows:

                    i. Virtual health advisory is from 8.30 am to 5.00 pm
                          day (Monday to Sunday) and provided free of charge.
                   ii. CPRC hotline.

                After 5.00 pm, the health advisory services can be accessed from
                The following sources are operated by private companies:
                        i. DoctorOnCall operate from 8.00 am to 12.00 pm
                               night every day (Monday to Sunday)
                               (Https // www.doctoroncall.com.my / coronavirus)
                        ii. BookDoc operates 24 hours per day (www.bookdoc.com)

                Please refer to the website and BookDoc DoctorOnCall for payment rates
                imposed.



     Ministry of Health in collaboration with the private sector will run the service
     sampling COVID 19th home run of the public who wish to
     COVID-19 detection test in which it will be charged by the private sector
     The. The official announcement on this will follow in
     the near future.

     MOH would like to take this opportunity to congratulate
     all employees of the Ministry of Health at all levels throughout Malaysia
     struggled against infections COVID-19 in Malaysia. MOH
     also want to say thanks to all ministries and agencies
     involved directly and indirectly in dealing with incidents
     this.

     Thank you.

     COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
     DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

     March 4, 2020 @ 4pm