PRESS RELEASE
                   MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                                  
          CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION DISEASE coronavirus 2019
                        (COVID-19) IN MALAYSIA
                             9 MAC 2020
        
       LATEST CASE STATUS COVID-19 IN MALAYSIA
        
       Recently, the Ministry of Health would like to inform that as of March 9, 2020, at 12
       noon, there were 18 new cases have been reported COVID-19.
       All these cases have been detected and isolated for further treatment.
       The contacts of the meeting for this case are also being identified for investigation and
       The next sampling.
        
       Ministry of Health would like to inform one case (case 101) detected among
       Patient Under Investigation (PUI) have been reported involve a man
       who returned from Iran. The case along with his business partner
       been to Iran on February 20 through February 27, 2020. The case has been detected
       symptomatic on March 5, 2020 and was confirmed positive cases COVID-19 at 8
       March 2020. Now, the case has been treated and admitted to the isolation ward
       Tuanku Jaafar, Negeri Sembilan.
        
       With the 18 new cases, bringing the cumulative number of cases
       positive COVID-19 in Malaysia was 117 cases. Of these
       19 cases were diagnosed in Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI)
       COVID-19 infection, 96 cases among close contacts and two (2) cases
       of Humanitarian Aid Mission. Two reported cases were in Unit
       Intensive care yesterday, is still being treated in the intensive care unit and still
       need help of a respirator.
        
       For your information, the cases reported for the second wave of this
       (Starting up the case of the 23 cases to 117), only six (6) cases were
                                                            
      
     reported from the PUI and have a history of travel
     countries. While other cases involved the cluster comprising
     of meetings and contacts have the same relationship between
     other.
      
     In addition, the Ministry of Health also conducted surveillance of COVID-19
     isolated or sporadic cases detected in Malaysia through the patient influenza-
     like-illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) that has nothing to do
     with a history of travel to affected countries or contact
     with positive cases COVID-19. As of March 9, 2020, a total of 574 samples
     has been tested and so far none of the samples tested positive for infection COVID-19.
     Based on current information, there are currently no cases of sporadic COVID-
     19 detected by the surveillance activities.
      
     SAMPLING COVID-19 AT HOME
      
     For the record, the Ministry of Health has been collaborating with the private sector
     sampling service COVID-19 at home. with collaboration
     The civilians who have no symptoms may be tested
     COVID-19 at home without having to visit health facilities. The public can
     get this service by uploading relevant applications for
     determine the time of the visit to the house for the purpose of sampling. though
     however, sample collection service will COVID-19
     charged by private concerns.
      
     HEALTH ADVICE
      
       1. MOH in to advise the public about the importance of care
        good health and if symptomatic, avoid
        visits to public places. Two simple methods have been
        proven to reduce the spread of infectious diseases
        caused by respiratory secretion droplets (respiratory droplets) in
        community. This method is also one method
        used by China during the outbreak COVID-19 in
        their country and this method is one of the contributors
        reduction COVID-19 case in China.
        
                                               
      
       2. Personal hygiene is good as always
        high hygiene practices such as frequent washing
        hands with soap and water, or use hand sanitizer and
        seek immediate medical attention if you experience symptoms
        upper respiratory tract infection such as fever, cough or difficulty
        to breathe.
         
       3. postpone the trip
        Ministry of Health wishes to advise the public to
        overseas, especially to the provinces or cities
        which declared a pandemic COVID-19 in Czech
        Of China, the Republic of Korea, Japan, Italy and Iran (as
        mentioned earlier).
         
       4. The public is also reminded to not spread or
        unverified information related incident COVID 19th. intimation
        updates on developments during the incident COVID-19 can
        available from the website of the Ministry of Health; www.moh.gov.my
         
      
     Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of infection COVID-19
     time to time and the public will be kept informed
     about it.
      
     Thank you.
      
     COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
     DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
      
     March 9th, 2020 @ 4:00 pm
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
                                               
                  
                                                                                                                                ATTACHMENT 1
                                                                                                                                                         
                  MOH COLLABORATION WITH PRIVATE FOR SAMPLING COVID-19
                                                                            AT HOME
                  
                      1. At this time the sampling was done to those who have been identified, namely,
                           PUI. At the same time there are a handful of those who want to get the test
                           COVID-19 that do not meet the criteria of PUI. With no obstacles for this MOH
                           those who want to get this test from the private sector.
                            
                      2. The Ministry of Health in collaboration with the private sector for services sampling
                           COVID-19 at home by:
                             a) Train members of the private sector in handling cases of PUI
                             b) trained recruitment and sample handling COVID-19
                             c) Control of the quality of the test COVID-19.
                  
                      3. Services sampling is done by a medical officer and
                           private paramedics who are trained in which the samples are sent to a private laboratory
                           for analysis.
                            
                      4. Services sampling COVID-19 in the home is subject to charges
                           imposed by private parties.
                  
                      5. Currently, this service is provided by the private sector as under:
                           a) Bookdoc
                           b) Pantai Premier Pathology Sdn Bhd
                           c) Healthcare Technical Services (M) Sdn Bhd (KPJ)
                           d) Qualitas Medical Group Sdn Bhd
                           e) Gleneagles Kuala Lumpur
                           f) Pantai Hospital Kuala Lumpur
                           g) Hospital Pantai Cheras
                           h) Pantai Hospital Klang
                           i) Hospital Pantai Ayer Keroh, Melaka
                           j) Medical Center Twin Towers, KLCC
                           k) DoctorOnCall
                  
                 Please visit the website of the companies for more information. list of companies
                 The private sector may be added from time to time.