PRESS RELEASE
                 DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                                  
             LATEST NOVEL INFECTION SITUATION coronavirus
                            IN MALAYSIA
         
        Ministry of Health (MOH) announced today that
        since January 10, 2020 until January 26, 2020 at 12.00 noon,
        the cumulative number of cases Patient-Under Investigation (PUI) infection Novel
        Coronavirus (2019-COV) is 23 cases; of which 14 were citizens
        Malaysia, eight Chinese nationals and one citizen of Jordan.
         
        Of the total 23 cases of PUI, there was only one positive case
        2019-cov where a man 40 years old Chinese citizen.
        Meanwhile, 18 cases were negative PUI (12 citizens, 5
        Chinese nationals and one citizen of Jordan) and were discharged from
        hospital. And four (4) cases of this PUI (2 Malaysian
        and two citizens of China) were placed in isolation in some
        hospitals, their laboratory results will be known in time
        Nearby.
         
        Meanwhile, the 8 Chinese citizens who are
        direct contact with positive cases in 2019-the first in Singapore COV,
        3 of them were found to be positive, a woman aged 65
        year and two boys aged 2 and 11 years old. 5 cases
        The negative has been sent back to China.
         
        Meanwhile, 17 people who had contact with positive cases placed fourth in
        under the monitoring and isolation in place
        provided pending the outcome of tests conducted
        on them.
         
        All four positive cases are in stable condition and is being monitored in
        in isolation wards in hospitals MOH identified
        as a referral hospital for the 2019-cov.
         
                 Taking into account the current situation, the Ministry of Health continues to improve step-
                 prevention and control of epidemic diseases Novel
                 Coronavirus. Suspected cases will be examined and referred to hospital
                 for sampling and monitoring of the development of symptoms of the case.
                 These cases are monitored until the end of the incubation period of this virus
                 at least 14 days from the date of disclosure or depart from
                 China. It is in line with Section 14 of the Prevention and
                 Control of Infectious Diseases, 1988 (Act 342).
                  
                 This procedure is done to ensure the prevention and
                 optimal control of the disease can be carried out. Any person who
                 do not comply with the instructions issued by any officer
                 power, upon conviction, be liable to punishment
                 imprisonment for a term not exceeding two (2) years or to a fine or
                 both under Section 24 (a) of the same Act. MOH
                 in collaboration with various agencies, including the Police
                 Malaysia (PDRM) to help detect suspected cases and
                 confirmed cases of isolation may be enhanced by
                 keep order and public health.
                  
                 In the event of early morning January 26, 2020, the police help
                 MOH detect a child who has been taken out
                 by the family of a hospital in Johor without the permission of the
                 hospital. The children were suspected of contracting the disease in 2019, and cov
                 being treated in the hospital. The case was brought back to
                 hospital and is now in stable condition and still
                 waiting for lab results. MOH congratulate and thank
                 I appreciate the cooperation of the police.
                  
                 MOH also like to suggest to the public that proposes
                 visited China to postpone their trip
                 except for urgent matters that can not be avoided. Many people
                 especially the pilgrims during their stay in China and
                 after returning to Malaysia are advised to adopt measures
                 the following precautions ,:
                  
                 • Maintain a high level of personal hygiene at all times as
                         Frequently wash your hands with soap and water or
                         hand sanitizer;
                  
                 • Always bring along a mask (face
                         mask) and hand sanitizer for use when necessary during
                         during the visit;
                  
                 • Avoid visiting crowded places and mingle closely focus
                         with any symptomatic individuals during the period
                         tours;
                  
                 • Avoid visits to animal farms, markets selling
                         live animals, the slaughter of animals or touching
                         any type of animal during the period of the visit; and
                  
                 • Refrain from consuming any raw animal products / no
                         cooked to perfection during the visit.
                  
                 Immediately seek medical attention if symptoms
                 upper respiratory tract infection such as fever, cough or difficulty
                 breathing within 14 days after returning from the trip. cross-legged
                 inform the travel history to the doctor who took care of
                 ensure early detection of infection in 2019-cov.
                  
                 Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection and
                 will provide an update situation infections in 2019-cov
                 from time to time. People are asked to get
                 authentic information from the authorities and do not spread
                 any false information to avoid anxiety and anxiety
                 community. Please cooperate to ensure that prevention measures
                 and control measures to be implemented effectively.
                  
                  
                  
                 COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
                 Director General of Health
                 Ministry of Health Malaysia
                  
                 January 26, 2020