MEDIA STATEMENT
                            CURRENT sITUATION
                PENYAKITNOVELCORONAVIRUS (COVID-19)
         ____________________________________________________
                   YABTIMBALANPERDANAMENTERI,
               DATO'SERIDR.WANAZIZAHDR.WANISMAIL
                               CHAIRMAN
          JAWATANKUASAPENGURUSANBENCANAPUSAT (JPBP)
         February 16, 2020, Putrajaya - Ministry of Health would like to inform one (1)
         cases have fully recovered and discharged
         overnight on February 15, 2020. The case is Case 15th,
         involving a female Chinese national who previously
         treated at Hospital Permai, Johor Bahru.
         There are NO new cases reported today, bringing the
         COVID-19 the number of cases that are still receiving treatment in hospital
         is seramai14 people and the number of cases that have been discharged are
         A total of 8 people.
                                    1
         For eight (8) cases were discharged, they underwent tests
         replay detection COVID-19 and found to be negative for
         two (2) times in a row.
         KAPALPERSIARANWESTERDAM
         This morning I met the Honorable Prime
         Minister together the Minister of Health, the Director General
         Health, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (KLN)
         Secretary General of Ministry of Home Affairs (KDN), Chairman
         Secretary of the Ministry of Transport (MOT), the Director General
         Immigration Department (JIM), the National Security Council (NSC) and
         The National Disaster Management Agency (DMA).
         I subsequently chaired the joint meeting
         These agencies include the Malaysia Airlines (MAS)
         to discuss the current status of the cluster COVID-19 and
         issues related thereto.
                                     2
          Related issues Cruises (Cruise) who WESTERDAM
          carrying 2,257 passengers who comprise 1,455
          and 802 crew members.
              The cruise ship was docked in Hong Kong daily
               before traveling for 14 days on a 1
               February 2020 as the East Asian cruise.
              This cruise ship docked in turn is not allowed
               several countries before receiving permission to
               docked in Sihanoukville, Cambodia on February 13, 2020.
              Cruise Line Holland America Line has
               Malaysia Airlines plane hired to bring
               part of the cruise ship passengers
               International Airport Sihanoukville, Cambodia
               to various final destination of passengers through airport
               Kuala Lumpur International Airport (KLIA).
               For this purpose, according to plan, the MAS
             
               will provide four flights chartered planes
               starting 14 February 2020 until 16 February 2020.
                                         3
               So far, only one charter flight (MH8763)
            
               carrying 145 passengers landed at
               KLIA on February 14, 2020, at 7 pm.
               All the 145 passengers who arrived telahmenjalani screening
            
               health and 2 of passenger (wife
               US citizen) detected asymptomatic through
               thermal scannerserta taken to the Sungai Buloh Hospital
               for further examination.
             The detection test COVID-19 on February 15,
               2020mendapati his wife of 83 years is positive. patients
               have symptoms of cough but no fever or shortness
               breath. The results of his x-ray showed signs of inflammation
               lungs.
               While tests on her husband tested negative COVID-19.
            
               But he is being treated for a bacterial infection
               experienced.
               MOH has informed the relevant MAS
            
               positive case results from tests carried out.
                                         4
              Accordingly, the other passengers
            
              The aircraft is considered a close contact (close contact).
              Based on the results, the MAS has
              to cancel the remainder of the other charter flights.
              COVID-examination was carried out on 19 pairs
            
              The husband-wife late last night and results
              whether obtained - that is positive and negative for wife
              her husband.
             Meanwhile, a total of 143 passengers who pass
              screening and asymptomatic, of which 137 have been continuing
              perjalananmanakala people are still waiting for the remaining 6
              connecting flights to their destinations.
         KEPUTUSANTERKINI
         Currently, the Government decided:
              To not allow any - any cruise ship
            
              departing or transiting in any port in China
              from entering Malaysia
              Next the remaining passenger cruise ship WESTERDAM
            
              who remained in Cambodia is not allowed
                                      5
              enter Malaysia account for all passengers
              The meeting is contact with a confirmed case
              Previous positive.
            Whereas, pending 6 passengers
              The next flight, will undergo detection test
              COVID-19. If the test is confirmed positive,
              Passengers will be allowed to continue
              trip. However, if found positive,
              The passengers will be taken to hospital for
              Further health monitoring.
         ACTIVITIES TRACKING CONTACT RATINGS
         International
         Following the detection of one (1) positive cases COVID-19 in
         among cruise ship passengers that have been anchored in
         Cambodia on February 13, 2020 and then fall by
         boarded a plane at the airport on February 14, 2020, events
         detection of close contacts have been implemented immediately.
                                     6
           These activities involve communication in malaysia
           International Health Regulations (IHR) Focal Point
           National IHR Focal Points of other countries involved.
           Through these communications, brief information about each
           passengers involved channeled to the National IHR Focal
           Points of each country. Such information will
           used by the Ministry of Health states involved
           to follow up and track the passengers the best
           they arrive at the destination.
           Is no exception, communication with National IHR Focal Points
           Cambodia also implemented. This is to enable action
           Effective prevention and control was also implemented in
           their level - which is the country where the ship
           The cruise was docked.
           The Malaysian government will continue to consolidate its
           preparedness and response in the face of the spread of infection
           COVID-19 in Malaysia. Ministry of Health will continue to monitor
           the development of the incidence of infection is through information
           derived from various quarters that the public will terlibat.Orang
           always informed of the latest developments
           about it. Similarly, the MOH will ensure steps
                                              7
         prevention and control measures implemented
         ongoing.
         The National Disaster Management Agency
         February 16, 2020
                                   8
          ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
          BUTIRANKESCOVID-19KE-22
          The 22nd case is a 83-year-old woman
          United States citizen. He was one
          passenger cruise ship that has docked in Cambodia in
          13 February 2020. All passengers and crew were
          allowed to return to their respective countries by state
          Cambodia informed that after health screening was
          carried out on them.
          A total of 145 passenger cruise ship was
          take a flight to Malaysia on February 14, 2020.
          Out of this, she and her husband have been detected
          symptomatic upon arrival at the KL International Airport
          (KLIA) and referred to the Sungai Buloh Hospital for
          undergo further examination. Detection screening tests
          COVID-19 was conducted by the Institute for Medical Research
          (IMR) and were confirmed positive on February 15, 2020.
          He is now in stable condition and being treated in hospital
          isolation hospital. Currently, the detection test
                                       9
             COVID-19 for the husband is negative. However, he still
             treatment and monitoring at the Sungai Buloh Hospital
             for her symptoms.
             KAPASITIIMRBAGIMENGESANCOVID-19
             For information, IMR laboratory is the reference laboratory
             identified by the World Health Organization (WHO)
             for polio and influenza. The lab is also an
             The first laboratory directly involved in
             run a diagnostic test to detect COVID-19 in
             Malaysia. It has started preparation for any
             the possibility of transmission COVID-19 to Malaysia since January 3
             2020 again where reagents to detect the coronavirus with
             Conventional methods using RT-PCR was prepared.
             Subsequently, on January 11, 2020 when scientists from China
             has shared genetic information COVID-19 Virology Unit IMR
             has designed a sequence of reagents known as "primers
             and probes specific for COVID-19 "on the same day. protocol
             which has been used by IMR is also in line with the protocol
             real time RT-PCR COVID-19 issued by WHO
             namely by Corman et al., 2020.
                                                   10
       Up to now, the activity detection is ongoing close contacts
       again to determine the contact with the victim. A total of 310
       close contacts have been identified and this number will increase
       This close contact so that detection is completed.
                            11