P.U. (A) 91
                      THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES 1988
               REGULATIONS PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES
                    (MEASURES IN THE AREA OF LOCAL INFECTION) 2020
               
              In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection 11 (2)
              The Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Act 1988 [Act 342],
              Minister makes the following regulations:
               
              Name and commencement
              1. (1) These Regulations may be cited as Regulations
              Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases (Measures in
              Local Area Infection) 2020.
               
                     (2) These Regulations have effect for the period from March 18, 2020
              until 31 March 2020.
                      
              interpretation
              2. In these Regulations-
                      
                    "Infected local area" means any area declared
              an infected local area under the Prevention and Control
              Infectious Diseases (Infection Local Area Declaration) 2020
              [P. U. (A) 87/2020];
                    "Services" means services as specified in
              Table.
               
              Control of movement and assembly
              3. (1) No person may move from one place to a place
              another in any areas of infection except for the following purposes:
                            (A) to perform any official duties;
                                                         2
                                                                                                       P.U. (A) 91
                                (B) to move to or from any premises referred to in
                                        regulation 5;
                                (C) to purchase, supply or deliver food or
                                        daily needs;
                                (D) to obtain healthcare services or
                                        medical; or
                                (E) any other special purposes as permitted by
                                        Head director.
                        (2) No person shall assemble or engage in any
                rally in any areas of infection either for the purpose of
                religious, sports, recreational, social or cultural.
                        (3) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (2), one can assemble or involved
                in an assembly for the purpose of the funeral provided that
                the number of people who attended the ceremony is at a minimum.
                         
                        (4) No person may move from an infected local area
                to an infected local area to another except with written permission
                police officer in charge of the police station first.
                         
                Requirement to undergo a medical examination upon arrival in Malaysia
                4. A citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia who had come from outside
                nation shall undergo medical examination before arriving in Malaysia
                obtain immigration clearance at any entrance and must comply
                any order issued by an authorized officer.
                 
                 
                 
                                                                3
                                                                                                                  P.U. (A) 91
                  Services need
                  5. (1) Any premises which provide essential services open
                  provided that the number of staff and visitors to the premises located at
                  a minimum.
                           (2) Any premises which does not provide essential services can
                  opened on condition that the owner or occupier of the premises to obtain permission
                  Director General in writing in advance and the Director General may impose any
                  conditions as it thinks fit.
                           (3) Any premises which are involved in the food supply chain
                  or the sale of food and beverages for the drive-thru, take it home and
                  Delivery can be opened subject to such conditions as may be imposed by
                  Director-General as he deems fit.
                   
                  Request for information
                  6. If an employee is authorized to request any information
                  relating to the prevention and control of infectious diseases
                  any person, that person shall comply with the request.
                   
                  offense
                  7. (1) Any person who contravenes any provision
                  These Regulations commits an offense and shall, on conviction,
                  to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                  six months or both.
                           (2) If an offense is committed by a body corporate,
                  any person who, at the time of the offense was a director,
                  manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate
                  or purporting to act in any capacity or by
                  in any manner or to any extent responsible for the management of the affairs
                  the body corporate or was assisting in the management of person-
                                                                        4
                                                                                                           P.U. (A) 91
                                 (A) may be charged severally or jointly in
                                         the same proceedings with the body corporate; and
                                 (B) if the body corporate is found guilty
                                         offense, shall be deemed guilty of the offense
                                         unless, having regard to the nature of its functions in
                                         capacity and to all circumstances, he proves:
                                         (I) that the offense was committed without his knowledge,
                                                 consent or connivance; and
                                          
                                         (Ii) that he took all precautions
                                                 reasonable and have been doing business
                                                 accordingly to prevent the commission of the offense.
                                                               SCHEDULE
                                                     ESSENTIAL SERVICES
                                                            [Rule 2]
                 1. Banking and Finance
                 2. Electricity and energy
                 3. Fire
                 4. Service and operation of ports, docks and airports,
                         including stevedoring, lighterage, cargo handling, pilotage
                         and storage or bulking commodities
                 5. Post
                 6. Prison
                 7. The production, refining, storage, supply and distribution of fuel
                         and lubricants
                 8. Healthcare and medical
                 9. Management of solid waste and public cleansing
                 10. Sewerage
                 11. The radio communication including broadcasting and television
                                                                   5
                12. Review P.U. (A) 91
                13. Transport by land, water or air
                14. Air
                15. E-commerce
                16. Defense and security
                17. Supply of Food
                18. Wildlife
                19. Immigration
                20. Customs
                21. Hotel and accommodation
                22. Any service or labor may be determined by the Minister to be necessary or
                        critical to the health or safety
                Created 18 March 2020
                [KKM.600-29 / 4/146 vol.2 (30); PN (PU2) 470 / VI]
DATO’ SRI DR. ADHAM BIN BABA 
                                                                                    Menteri Kesihatan 
                                                 
                                                                 6 
                                                                                                 P.U. (A) 91 
                          PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT 1988 
                                                               
                  PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES (MEASURES WITHIN THE 
                                     INFECTED LOCAL AREAS) REGULATIONS 2020 
                
               IN    exercise    of   the    powers     conferred    by    subsection     11(2)    of   the                                                   
               Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases Act 1988 [Act 342], the Minister makes the 
               following regulations: 
                
               Citation and commencement 
               1.      (1)    These  regulations  may  be  cited  as  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
               Infectious Diseases (Measures within the Infected Local Areas) Regulations 2020. 
                           
                       (2)    These  Regulations  have  effect  for  the  period  from  18  March  2020                         
               to 31 March 2020. 
                
               Interpretation 
               2.    In these Regulations— 
                
                     “infected local area” means any area declared to be infected local area under the 
               Prevention  and  Control  of  Infectious  Diseases  (Declaration  of  Infected  Local  Areas)                 
               Order 2020 [P.U. (A) 87/2020]; 
                
                     “essential services” means the services as specified in the Schedule. 
                
               Control of movements and gatherings 
               3.      (1)     No person shall make any journey from one place to another place within 
               any infected local area except for the following purposes: 
                              (a)    to perform any official duty; 
                               
                              (b)    to  make  a  journey  to  and  from  any  premises  referred  to  in 
                                     regulation 5; 
                                                             7 
                                                                                                             P.U. (A) 91 
                                  (c)     to purchase, supply or deliver food or daily necessities; 
                                      
                                  (d)     to seek healthcare or medical services; or 
                                      
                                  (e)     any  other  special  purposes  as  may  be  permitted  by  the                           
                                          Director General. 
                         (2)      No person shall gather or be involved in any gathering within any infected 
                 local area whether for religious, sports, recreational, social or cultural purpose. 
                         (3)      Notwithstanding subregulation (2), a person may gather or be involved in 
                 a gathering for purpose of funeral ceremony provided that the number of attendees to 
                 such ceremony shall be kept to the minimum. 
                         (4)    No person shall make a journey from one infected local area to another 
                 infected local area except with the prior written permission of a police officer in charge 
                 of a police station. 
                  
                 Requirement to undergo health examination upon arrival in Malaysia 
                 4.     A citizen or permanent resident of Malaysia returning from overseas shall undergo 
                 health examination upon arrival in Malaysia before proceeding for immigration clearance 
                 at any point of entry and shall comply with any order issued by an authorized officer. 
                  
                 Essential services  
                 5.      (1)      Any premises providing essential services may be opened provided that 
                 the number of personnel and patron at the premises shall be kept to the minimum. 
                         (2)      Any premises not providing essential services may be opened provided 
                 that the owner or occupier of the premises obtains the prior written permission of the 
                 Director  General  and  the  Director  General  may  impose  any  conditions  as                                      
                 he thinks fit. 
                         
                                                                    8 
                                                                                                    P.U. (A) 91 
                       (3)     Any  premises  involved  in  food  supply  chain  or  in  selling  food  and 
                beverages by way of drive-through, take away and delivery may be open subject to any 
                conditions imposed by the Director General as he thinks fit. 
                 
                Request for information 
                6.       Where an authorized officer requests for any information relating to prevention and 
                control of infectious disease from any person, the person shall comply with the request. 
                 
                Offence 
                7.     (1)     Any person who contravenes any provision of these Regulations commits 
                an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand ringgit 
                or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both. 
                       (2)     If an offence is committed by a body corporate, any person who, at the time 
                of the commission of the offence was a director, manager, secretary or other similar 
                officer of the body corporate or was purporting to act in any such capacity or was in any 
                manner or to any extent responsible for the management of any of the affairs of the body 
                corporate or was assisting in such management— 
                               (a)    may be charged severally or jointly in the same proceedings with 
                                      the body corporate; and 
                               (b)    where the body corporate is found guilty of the offence, shall be 
                                      deemed to be guilty of that offence unless, having regard to the 
                                      nature of his functions in that capacity and to all circumstances,           
                                      he proves— 
                                      (i)     that    the    offence    was    committed    without    his 
                                              knowledge, consent or connivance; and 
                                      (ii)    that  he  took  all  reasonable  precautions  and  had exercised 
                                              due diligence to prevent the commission of the offence. 
                                                              9 
                                                                     SCHEDULE                                            P.U. (A) 91 
                                                              ESSENTIAL SERVICES 
                                                                   [Regulation 2] 
                   1.       Banking and finance                               
                   2.       Electricity and energy  
                   3.       Fire  
                   4.       Port,  dock  and  airport  services  and  undertakings,  including  stevedoring, 
                            lighterage, cargo handling, pilotage and storing or bulking of commodities 
                   5.       Postal  
                   6.       Prison  
                   7.       Production, refining, storage, supply and distribution of fuel and lubricants 
                   8.       Healthcare and medical  
                   9.       Solid waste management and public cleansing 
                   10.      Sewerage 
                   11.      Radio communication including broadcasting and television  
                   12.      Telecommunication  
                   13.      Transport by land, water or air 
                   14.      Water 
                   15.      E-commerce 
                   16.      Defense and security  
                   17.      Food supply 
                   18.      Wildlife 
                   19.      Immigration 
                   20.      Customs 
                   21.      Hotels and accommodations 
                   22.      Any services or works determined by the Minister as essential or critical to public   
                            health or safety 
                    
                    
                    
                                                                           10 
       Made 18 March 2020                P.U. (A) 91 
       [KKM.600-29/4/146 Jld.2 (30); PN(PU2)470/VI] 
        
                             DATO’ SRI DR. ADHAM BIN BABA 
                                 Minister of Health 
        
                         11