PRESS RELEASE
                          MINISTER OF HEALTH
                                        
             2019 CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION IN MALAYSIA AND-cov
                MOH PREPAREDNESS TO FACE TRANSMISSION
                                                      January 28, 2020
           
          CURRENT STATISTICS 2019-cov
           
          Since January 10, 2020 until January 28, 2020, at 12 noon,
          the cumulative number of cases Patient-Under-Investigation (PUI) infections in 2019
          novel coronavirus (2019-COV) is 65 cases, of which 34 are
          Malaysian, 30 Chinese nationals and one (1) citizen
          Jordan.
           
          Of the total 65 cases of PUI, there is one positive case in 2019-cov
          as was mentioned earlier. Meanwhile,
          PUI of 61 cases were negative (34 Malaysians, 26
          Chinese nationals and one citizen Jordon). Meanwhile, three (3) more
          Case PUI (Chinese citizen), are still waiting for the lab results.
           
          Three (3) members who had contact with a positive case in 2019-the first cov
          Singapore confirmed positive infection in 2019-cov still being treated in hospital
          isolation and in stable condition. All 17 contact with the victim
          2019 fourth-cov positive were confirmed negative and discharged
          Order of undergoing monitoring and isolation.
                                                                    1
           
                     Table 1: Summary of Case 2019 PUI-cov
                                           Positive Negative Pending Number
                     Nationals 0 34 0 34
                     Malaysia
                     Nationality 1 26 3 30
                     china
                     Others 0 1 0 1
                     Total 1 61 3 65
               
                     Table 2: Summary Contact Meeting 2019 Case-cov
                                         Positive Negative Pending Number
                     Cluster 3 5 0 8
                     member
                     china
                     Case 0 17 0 17
                     fourth
                     Total 3 22 0 25
               
               
              PREPAREDNESS INVOLVING THE 2019-cov activities-
              ACTIVITIES AT THE ENTRANCE (PMA) STATE
               
               Since January 4, 2020, the Ministry of Health has increased screening
                     all travelers (passengers and crew) from China
                     Entrance on all International (PMA) countries as a step
                     2019 face-cov.
                      
                     Screening is done on all FDI involves Airport
                     international, ports and land entry in
                     this country. At this point there are 64 FDI in the country.
                                                                                                       2
               
            
         Screening of travelers who arrive at PMA adopt 3
           approach:
            
           a) Screening fever using thermal scanners.
               At this point there are 54 thermal scanners at some PMA
               The main countries. Any traveler will be detected fever
               examined by paramedics to confirm a fever. history
               trip to Chuna within 2 weeks before arriving in
               Malaysia will be obtained. If the traveler
               PUI meet the criteria will be referred to hospital for treatment
               information. Reference to the hospital will use the vehicle
               special ambulance, accompanied by the members trained
               wear personal protective equipment to prevent
               infection.
                
                Travelers who do not meet the criteria will PUI
                Home Assessment Tool and be placed under the Home
                Surveillance for the next 14 days. Those found
                cough but no fever will be given masks and
                mouth (face mask) to prevent the spread of this disease
                publicly.
            
               While the traveler does not have any
               symptoms, will be given Health Alert Card (HAC). they
               We recommend immediate treatment if they have
               fever, cough or difficulty breathing within 14 days of
               arrival and bring together the current HAC meet
               the medical officer for treatment.
                
                                                       3
         
                  b) Cooperation with the Immigration Department (JIM)
                         to refer to any travelers from China to
                         Further examination by medical personnel at the PMA.
                          
                  c) MOH also put up bunting to inform and
                         encourage any traveler arriving from China
                         to come to the health examination center in PMA (self
                         declaration). Some PMA perform periodic announcements
                         to advise travelers to come to the point
                         PMA examination for examination.
                   
                  d) Members of the Ministry of Health will conduct random inspections of
                         time to time on Malaysians
                         use autogate. MOH also hope that citizens
                         Malaysia volunteered to appear for examination
                         PMA's health.
                   
             Airport Health Office has collaborated with
                  Malaysia Airports Berhad and the Aviation Authority
                  Malaysia to move all planes from China to the door
                  (Gate) that have been identified to avoid mixing
                  Passengers from China and other passengers of the destination.
                  Screening fever using thermal scanners will
                  performed at the gate. They suspected PUI will continue
                  referred to hospital via special routes identified for
                  avoid exposure to other passengers.
                   
             In the harbor were all the boats will be given the status of China
                  quarantine until members of the MOH conduct checks on
                  ship. Activities unloading goods and the decline of the crew and
                                                                                         4
             
             Passengers will be allowed if the inspection finds
             all passengers and crew healthy and documents
             ship sanitation is still valid.
          
          Airlines had been asked to identify passengers
             symptomatic during a flight. If there is any
             symptomatic passengers, members will be informed of the health of the PMA
             to await the arrival of the plane at a particular gate. when the ship
             arrived at the gate of the airport have been identified, the health team will
             boarded a plane to handle the case. control
             Another passenger is in accordance with existing procedures.
              
          
         ROLE PLAYERS ALSO IN TOURISM INDUSTRY
         CONTAINMENT OF INFECTION TRANSMISSION IN 2019-cov
         MALAYSIA
          
          Travel agencies are requested to inform the members
             customers who want to get involved and to China's situation
             The latest outbreak of the disease in 2019-Cov and travel advice
             issued by the Ministry of Health from time to time, namely:
              
             a) detecting people to avoid visiting
                  China until further notice.
                   
             b) Adopt high level of personal hygiene such as frequent
                  wash hands with soap and water or use
                  hand sanitizer.
          
                                                               5
          
           c) If the visit to China is inevitable,
                while there:
                 
                  Avoid visiting crowded places and focus
                   not closely associate with any individual who
                   asymptomatic;
                  Avoid visits to the farm animal market
                   sell live animals, the slaughter of animals or
                   touch any kind of animal;
                  Avoid eating any raw animal products
                   / Not thoroughly cooked.
                    
           d) Immediately seek medical attention if ill
               (That is experiencing symptoms of upper respiratory tract infections such as
               fever, cough or difficulty in breathing) in
               within 14 days after returning to homeland
         
         Travelers coming from China must be informed
           requirement to declare their health status before arriving
           Malaysia. In addition, the need to undergo the procedure
           Monitoring and isolation and insulation should be symptomatic
           explained to the customer.
            
         To strengthen the agency and tourism associations to
           fever screening on travelers and refer them
           to the nearest health facility for further examination and treatment.
            
                                                       6
         
          The travel agencies and accommodation facilities management
             advised to practice good personal hygiene and
             environment including disinfection.
          
         Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
         information obtained from the WHO. People will
         always informed of latest developments.
         Similarly, the MOH will ensure that preventive and control measures
         which should be implemented continuously.
          
          
         Thank you.
          
          
          
         DATUK DR. Dzulkefly
         MINISTER OF HEALTH
          
         January 28, 2020
          
          
                                                 
                                                                7