NATIONAL DISASTER MANAGEMENT AGENCY
                                                                          PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE

                                                                          Level 7, Block D5, Complex D Tel: 03-8870 4891
                                                                          Federal Government Administrative Center Fax: 03-8870 4848
                                                                          62502 Putrajaya, Malaysia


                                                                                                                            MEDIA STATEMENT

                                                                                        SPECIAL MEETING OF HIGH LEVEL COMMITTEE
                                                                     COMMITTEE OF DISASTER MANAGEMENT CENTER (JPBP)
                                                     NOVEL DISEASE ON CLUSTER coronavirus (COVID-19)
                                                                                                                   NUMBER 5 YEAR 2020


                                      February 21, 2020, this morning I chaired a special meeting of the High
                                      Level Committee (HLC) of the cluster in relation to disease Covid-19
                                      get the current status of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies
                                      Related to manage this issue.

                                      Today's meeting was also attended by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Heads
                                      Secretary, state secretary or representative, and the Director General of
                                      representatives of the relevant agencies.


                                      CURRENT STATUS

                                               o According to the Ministry of Health (MOH) until 8am today,
                                                        There are 75.641 cases reported worldwide with 2,122 deaths.

                                               o No new positive cases COVID-19 reported today, February 21, 2020.
                                                        Cumulative number of cases reported COVID-19 until today STAY
                                                        22 cases with only five (5) is treated at the ward,
                                                        while the number of cases have been discharged from the ward is seventeen
                                                        (17).

                                               o Of the five (5) cases being treated it: Three (3) people in the Hospital
                                                        Kuala Lumpur (HKL); One (1) in HSB, Kedah;
                                                        One (1) at the Sungai Buloh Hospital.

                                               o Malaysia is still at the early phase of containment - no transmission
                                                        widely from one individual to another (H2H transmission),
                                                        No sporadic cases detected in the community, no deaths
                                                        recorded, is still able to handle the capacity and
                                                        existing capacity.

                                                                                                                                                        ,



        o MOE has established a Management Committee Cluster
          Coronavirus DISEASE 19 (Covid-19) and the movement of this Committee
          was commissioned at the Division Education Malaysia (BEM)
          The Department of Higher Education (JPT).

        o All 20 Higher Education Institutions (IPTA) has developed
          Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to deal with the spread of Covid-19
          while 17 Private Higher Educational Institutions reported to have
          SOP including Xiamen University Malaysia which has many students
          of China.

        o As of today all students who returned from China has gone through
          health screening and all tested negative Covid-19.

        o Education Malaysia Beijing (EMB) in collaboration with an association
          Malaysian student associations in China have developed Covid-19
          Overseas Students Management Dashboard to assist in monitoring
          the presence of Malaysian students studying in China.

        o BEM in collaboration with the Health Council of Public University Malaysia
          (MAKESUM) and the Ministry of Health has developed The Preparatory Plan To
          Prevent Transmission of The Covid-19 For Malaysian Institutes of Higher
          Learning

        o Ministry of Foreign Affairs (KLN) and the National Disaster Management Agency
          (DMA) via Air Asia currently manages to bring
          home around 75 citizen and spouse / child of
          Wuhan. When flights are scheduled on 25 February.

        o Mission HADR-Wuhan-2 will be managed the same as the first mission
          where upon arrival at the airport all going through health screening in
          Air Disaster Unit (ADU) before being sent to the Academy of Leadership
          Higher Education (AKEPT) for process monitoring for 14 days.







                         2



       RESULTS

       Based on the presentations Ministries and Agencies
       Today, the meeting agreed to take actions such as
       following:

        1. Students are citizens of China have to go through health screening unless
          arrive more than 14 days in Malaysia. BEM has been and will continue to implement
          Health Screening procedures that have been agreed upon by the Ministry of Health
          and KPM.

        2. Tightening screening process Malaysians traveling to / home
          of China, in addition to health screening for thermal scanner, screening
          Health swab test will also be conducted. Individuals found to be positive
          Covid-19 will continue to be taken to hospital. If negative, they will
          allowed to return to live according to the Home Surveillance
          the guidelines have been established by the Ministry of Health.

        3. Screening border entry points in Johor - Singapore will be tightened.
          MOH will also discuss methods of monitoring and control methods
          screening at the border (entry and exit) in a bilateral joint-forum
          Committee Working Group with the Government of Singapore on February 25
          2020


        4. In view of the cruise ships have been blocked from landing in
          Malaysia, the government is trying to help about 100 crew
          Malaysians were on board a cruise WorldDream
          in Malaysian waters. They will go through a health screening and swab
          test before being allowed to go home.

        5. To ensure the adequacy of face masks, the ministry will
          coordinate the supply of face masks from manufacturers and
          limiting exports out face masks. DMA will help
          The distribution of masks to the officer ranks of the agency
          front.




                         3



                 ADVICE FOR THOSE WHO HAVE SYMPTOMS (COUGH / COLD /
                 DIFFICULTY BREATHING)

                     • Always wear a face mask. If you do not wear masks, masks
                         mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing and sneezing.
                         Dispose of the used tissue in the trash and CLEANING
                         HAND immediately with soap or hand sanitizers.

                     • You should also limit your range with their healthy
                         at least 1 meter.


                 Dato 'Seri Dr Wan Azizah Wan Ismail
                 Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia,
                 February 21, 2020


















                 Additional information

                 Cabinet had discussed related barriers to entry of tourists
                 from China but for the moment there are still some things being studied
                 before it can be implemented.


                                                                   4