PRESS RELEASE
                                                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH

                                                  CURRENT SITUATION OF INFECTION OUTBREAK UPDATE
                                             2019 NOVEL coronavirus (2019-COV) AND STATUS
                                  PREPAREDNESS FOR THE POTENTIAL OF TRANSMISSION
                                                                                            IN MALAYSIA

                          Ministry of Health (MoH) took note of the progress
                          The latest outbreak of novel coronavirus infection in 2019 (2019-COV)
                          based on reporting from the World Health Organization (WHO)
                          and a variety of resources obtained so far. As of January 22, 2020,
                          There are a total of 448 confirmed cases of infection in 2019-Cov, with
                          most of them were reported by China and not only
                          limited to the local population in Wuhan. Nine (9) out of 448 cases
                          The cases reported are from outside China. The cases
                          Reported from outside Wuhan, China has a history of travel
                          visiting them, just before they fell ill and was confirmed to be infected by
                          the virus.

                          Up to now, the way the 2019-Cov infection is still not clear.
                          Cases detected were found to have symptoms of respiratory tract infection
                          such as fever, cough or difficulty in breathing. Be found
                          the possibility of transmission from person to person
                          other (human-to-human transmission), particularly among contact
                          close. However, investigations conducted by the World Health Organization
                          (WHO) and the various parties involved are still not able to provide
                                                                                                                                                                                          1
                       clear answers and are not able to identify how exactly
                       The viral infection transmitted to humans. However, for the moment
                       The WHO has not issued any travel restrictions and trade
                       with China.

                       Next, the WHO has urged member states to
                       enhance the level of preparedness in their respective levels of
                       the potential spread of this virus. Outbreak of this infection
                       taken seriously by the KKM, hence preparedness and response measures
                       The following continue to be strengthened:

                          i. Procedures involving about public health facilities and
                                  private has been released recently. This procedure will be used
                                  as a reference to all the members in the field of health
                                  locate, operate and manage an individual suspected
                                  2019-cov infected;
                         ii. MOH has strengthened health screening at all
                                  Entrance International, and in the event of a hobo
                                  suspected, he would be referred for further examination;
                         iii. MOH also cooperate with other relevant agencies in the Door
                                  In International to enable rapid detection
                                  traveled symptomatic;
                        iv. Screening of patients in health clinics and hospital emergency department
                                  strengthened to ensure that suspected cases are referred and
                                  operated in compliance with the preventive measures and
                                  infection control;
                         v. There were 26 MOH hospitals that have been identified in
                                  across the country to handle cases of suspected that -
                                  which requires further examination and treatment;
                        vi. Samples obtained from the patient will be sent for a
                                  detection and confirmation tests in 2019-cov Research Institute
                                                                                                                                                                2
                            Medical Research (IMR) and the National Public Health Laboratory (NPHL)
                            which is an existing laboratories capable of
                            conducting the test;
                    vii. In the event of suspected cases detected in 2019-COV of
                            any health facility, the case will be reported / notified by
                            immediately to the District Health Office, Department of Health
                            State and Crisis Preparedness and Response Center (CPRC)
                            immigration;
                   viii. Getting ready for the Rapid Response Team (RRT) and Rapid
                            Assessment Team (RAT) at the district level to be activated
if there is a notification of suspected cases in 2019-cov
                            of hospital care - to undertake detection
                            contacts in the field; and
                    ix. The use of personal protective equipment (PPE) for all members
                            Health involved continue to be emphasized and stockpile
                            (Stockpile) including medicines to deal with outbreaks
                            always ensured adequate to cover the needs of the facility
                            their health.

                   So far, the Crisis Preparedness and Response Center (CPRC)
                   Immigration has received the report of the four (4) cases of suspected
                   infected 2019-cov. Once detected, they have been admitted to the hospital
                   treatment and isolation to enable further investigation is carried out.
                   Laboratory tests conducted on samples belonged to three (3) patients
                   first tested negative for infection-cov 2019. Referring to the case
                   The latest suspect admitted to an isolation ward at a hospital in
                   Sabah on January 22, 2020, he was in stable condition. samples
                   for cases that have been sent to the IMR to undergo tests
                   detection and verification. The test results will be obtained in time
                   the nearest.

                                                                                                                                     3
                      MOH take this opportunity to advise the public that
                      want to visit Wuhan, China to postpone their trip
                      except for urgent matters that can not be avoided. Similarly,
                      the public are reminded to adopt measures
                      following precautions, especially to travelers while in
                      Wuhan and after returning to Malaysia:

                         i. Always practice a high level of personal hygiene such as frequent
                                 wash hands with soap and water or materials
                                 hand wash (hand sanitizer);
                        ii. During the visit, always carry with cover
                                 mouth and nose (mask) and detergent (hand sanitizer)
                                 for use when necessary;
                        iii. During the visit, refrain from visiting places
                                 concentration of people and closely associate with any individual who
                                 asymptomatic;
                       iv. During the visit, avoid visits to the farm
                                 animals, markets selling live animals, the slaughter of animals
                                 or touch any kind of animal;
                        v. During the visit, refrain from taking any
                                 raw animal products / not thoroughly cooked;
                       vi. To immediately seek medical attention if ill
                                 (That is experiencing symptoms of respiratory tract infection such as fever,
                                 cough or difficulty breathing) within 14 days
                                 after returning from the trip. Likewise, please let
                                 the relevant travel history to the doctor.

                      It is clear that the number of reported cases in this outbreak
                      increasing. Thus, on January 22, 2020 the first session of the Meeting
                      International Health Regulations (IHR) Emergency Committee was held
                      by the WHO to assess whether they meet the status events
                                                                                                                                                          4
                          Public Health Emergency of International Concern (PHEIC) as
                          provided for under the International Health Regulations (2005). The meeting sessions will be resumed
                          again on January 23, 2020. The World Health Organization will inform about
                          developments regarding the situation of the epidemic in 2019-Cov and recommendations
                          the results of this meeting to the member states.

                          Therefore, the Ministry of Health will continue to monitor the incidence of this infection through
                          information obtained from the WHO and any developments
                          will be informed about it from time to time. Similarly, the Ministry of Health
                          will ensure the prevention and control measures
                          ongoing.


                          COMMISSIONER DR. HISHAM BIN ABDULLAH NOOR
                          DIRECTOR GENERAL HEALTH
                          MINISTRY OF HEALTH MALAYSIA
                          January 23, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                          5