Moving Into Phase Two of Re-opening



MOVING INTO PHASE TWO OF RE-OPENING


Published Date: 15 Jun 2020

            The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has assessed the situation and
decided to start Phase Two after 18 June 2020, 2359 hours. Community
infection rates have remained generally stable despite the increase in
workplace activity in Phase One of re-opening. The incidence of cases in
migrant worker dormitories has also declined, and there are no new large
clusters emerging.
2.  In this next phase, our goal is to ensure that efforts taken
during the circuit breaker period and Phase One of reopening are
sustained. By limiting close contact among individuals, while
maintaining hygiene and safe management principles, we will be able to
resume more activities without substantially raising the risk of new
clusters of infections.
APPROACH FOR PHASE TWO
3.  Apart from a small list of exceptions, Phase Two will see the
resumption of most activities, subject to the following safe distancing
principles:

  a.  As a default, measures should be put in place to ensure that
individuals maintain safe distancing of at least ONE METRE at all times.
  b.  Where not feasible or practical to apply one metre safe distancing
between individuals, this one metre requirement can instead be enforced
between groups, with each group made up of not more than FIVE PERSONS,
and with no mixing between groups. Other safe management measures should
also be in place.
4.  Similarly, small-group social gatherings of up to any five
persons can also resume. Within the home, households may receive up to
five visitors at any one time.
ACTIVITIES TO BE RESUMED
5.  After 18 June, 2359 hours, retail businesses may re-open
their physical outlets. Food and beverage dine-in will also be allowed
to resume, subject to liquor sales and consumption ceasing at 2230
hours. However, live music and television and video screenings will not
be allowed in all F&B outlets at this stage. Larger public venues with
high human traffic such as malls and large standalone retail outlets
will be subject to capacity limits, and operators will be required to
prevent crowds or long queues from building up within and in the
immediate vicinity of their premises.
6.  Personal health and wellness, and home-based services will
also be allowed to resume. Registered clubs and societies will be
allowed to operate at their registered premises. Tuition and other
private enrichment classes can resume, with the exception of singing or
voice training classes. All other healthcare services, including
eldercare services in the community, individual health screening and
aesthetic services, will resume with safe distancing measures in place.
Face-to-face visitations at residential facilities for the elderly
(including nursing homes, welfare homes, sheltered homes and adult
disability homes) will also resume with precautionary measures in place.
7.  Sports, parks and other public facilities will also open.
These include playgrounds, beaches, lawns and fields, stadia, swimming
complexes, sports halls, hardcourts, gyms, fitness studios, bowling
centres and function rooms. This applies also to similar facilities in
private settings such as condominiums and clubs.
8.  The complete list of businesses that are allowed to operate
can be found on MTI’s website
(https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/permittedlist/). Businesses in this
list do not need to apply for an exemption before resuming operations.
9.  However, they are required to submit the number of workers
who are working on-site via the GoBusiness portal
(https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg) within two weeks of the date of
resumption of on-site operations. In the interest of reducing physical
contact between individuals, telecommuting must remain the default for
all businesses where feasible.
10.  In settings run by permitted businesses, such as for F&B
dining-in or classes where individuals come together for activities, the
one metre safe distancing requirement may be waived only if each group
is made up of not more than five persons, and subject to overall safe
management measures as indicated earlier.
11.  Further guidance for various sectors will be provided by the
relevant agencies in the coming days, leading up to the start of Phase
Two. Businesses and organisations are reminded to play their part to
keep Singapore safe. Should they be unable to meet safe management
principles, businesses and organisations can engage relevant agencies to
seek approval for alternative safe distancing measures. Such businesses
and activities should only open when they are ready. Businesses and
organisations found to be flouting safe management principles may be
required to close.
EXCEPTIONS
12.  While the vast majority of activities will be allowed to
resume at the start of Phase Two, the resumption of a small number of
activities will take more time. These are activities or settings where
large numbers of people are likely to come into close contact, often in
enclosed spaces, and for prolonged periods of time. Overseas and local
experience has shown that these settings can spawn large clusters of
infections, given the number of close contacts between individuals in
the course of such activities.
13.  Such activities and settings include:
  a.  Religious services and congregations;
  b.  Large cultural venues such as libraries and museums;
  c.  Large-scale events and venues, such as conferences, exhibitions,
concerts and trade fairs; and
  d.  Entertainment venues such as bars, nightclubs, karaoke outlets,
cinemas, theatres, as well as indoor and outdoor attractions.
14.   Government agencies have begun to engage relevant businesses
and organisations on possible safe management measures to be taken for
these activities or settings.  Agencies will advise these organisations
on the approval processes and timelines for their resumption at a later
date, depending on the ability and readiness of the organisation to
implement these measures.
GUIDELINES OF SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES AND SETTINGS
15.  Apart from the safe management principles, specific rules will
apply to the following events and settings:
  a. WEDDINGS. Added flexibility will be given for weddings. Wedding
solemnizations at home and at ROM or ROMM may take place with up to ten
persons (excluding the Solemnizer). At other venues, they may take place
with up to twenty persons (excluding the Solemnizer), subject to the
venue’s capacity limit based on safe management principles.
  b. WAKES AND FUNERALS. For wakes and funerals, up to twenty persons
may be present at any one time.
  c. WORKPLACES. The current safe management measures for workplaces
will continue to apply. Employers must continue to ensure that there are
no social gatherings between employees, and safe distancing of at least
one metre is maintained at all times.
  d. SCHOOLS AND INSTITUTES OF HIGHER LEARNING (IHLS). Students from
all levels will return to school daily from 29 June 2020. IHLs have been
conducting most lessons online, except for practical and
laboratory-based lessons, and will gradually increase the number of
students back on campus for face-to-face learning. The Ministry of
Education will share more details later this week.
ROLE OF THE PUBLIC
16.  With the range of activities resuming in Phase Two, the number
of close contacts between individuals will increase. More new community
cases should be expected. To keep the number of new cases under control,
it is critical that we continue to exercise caution. All of us must
adhere to safe management principles, and we should avoid businesses or
activities that fail to comply.
17.  At the same time, we must practise social responsibility in
upholding good personal hygiene and safe distancing measures - wash our
hands regularly, wear a mask wherever we go, and see a doctor
immediately when we are sick. We should also check-in and check-out on
SafeEntry when required, and download and install the TraceTogether app
on our phones.
18.  While the scope for meeting friends and family members has
been increased, we urge everyone to continue exercising personal
responsibility. They should protect themselves and their families by
keeping their daily number of contacts small and preferably limited to a
regular circle of close contacts.  As seniors are especially vulnerable,
they should continue to exercise extra caution and stay at home as much
as possible.
19.  Individually, these are steps that everyone can take to
protect ourselves and our loved ones. Collectively, these actions will
make all the difference in keeping COVID-19 at bay.
TOWARD A SAFE AND SUSTAINABLE RE-OPENING – EVERYONE PLAYS A PART
20.  Phase Two is a significant step in moving towards a new
COVID-safe normal. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to monitor
the situation closely, with the aim of continuing to ease measures,
until we reach a new normal in PHASE THREE. Our goal is to re-open our
economy and society progressively, while controlling the infection and
providing maximum protection for vulnerable groups, such as our seniors
and those with medical conditions.
21.  Meanwhile, we must all adjust our expectations, lifestyles and
norms, as we are not going back to the way things were before COVID-19.
Let us continue to stay disciplined and vigilant, and not let all our
previous efforts go to waste. Together, let us find the resilience
within ourselves, the solidarity with each other, and the fortitude as a
society to embark on this collective journey to achieve a COVID-safe
Singapore.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 JUNE 2020
