Enablers to Support Safe Re-opening



ENABLERS TO SUPPORT SAFE RE-OPENING


Published Date: 18 Jun 2020

               The Multi-Ministerial Taskforce has announced the start
of Phase 2 after 18 June 2020, 2359 hours. As we ease the restrictions
under Phase 1, we will need to continue to step up our precautionary
measures to enable a safe resumption of activities. Our expanded
COVID-19 testing regime, and the use of technology to facilitate
efficient contact tracing, are part of these efforts and key enablers to
support a safe re-opening of our economy and society.
EXPANSION OF TESTING STRATEGY
2.            Our current testing strategy is focused on active case
finding among the community and active surveillance testing amongst
targeted groups who are more vulnerable or have a higher risk of
exposure to COVID-19. We have plans to increase capacity to 40,000
tests/day.
3.           We have applied this increased testing capacity in several
ways.First, we have STEPPED UP THE TESTING OF CLOSE CONTACTS. Previously
we would only quarantine the close contacts of confirmed cases. Now we
test all of them before the start of quarantine.If anyone tests
positive, we start contract tracing again based on this person’s
activity map. In this way, we broaden the list of suspect cases, and are
able to isolate them early, and stop the virus from spreading.
4.           Second, we aim to TEST ALL INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DIAGNOSED
WITH ACUTE RESPIRATORY INFECTION (ARI) AT FIRST PRESENTATION TO A
DOCTOR. There is clinical and scientific evidence to show that a person
is most infectious right before and immediately after the start of
symptoms. Testing individuals diagnosed with ARI would therefore allow
us to detect infected individuals early to quickly contain further
spread. We have since the start of June done this for selected
individuals including seniors 65 years old and above, healthcare
workers, and staff and older students[1] at our educational
institutions[2]. With more individuals returning to workplaces as our
economy re-opens, we will EXTEND TESTING TO ALL INDIVIDUALS AGED 45 AND
ABOVE WHO ARE DIAGNOSED WITH ARI from later next week, as the risks of
severe COVID-19 infection increases from age 45. This will progressively
be extended to more groups subsequently.
5.           We encourage all individuals with respiratory symptoms to
see a doctor immediately, so that they can be tested if necessary. The
COVID-19 tests ordered by the doctors at our polyclinics and Public
Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) are fully subsidised.
6.           Finally, we will continue to do MORE ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE
TESTING IN THE COMMUNITY. In May, we had completed testing of all staff
and residents of the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Social and
Family Development residential homes, and all preschool and early
intervention staff before resumption of full preschool services. We have
also started regular testing of workers returning to work in the
construction, marine and process sectors, and frontline workers
supporting our COVID-19 operations. We will continue to monitor the
situation, and based on our assessment of risks, we will progressively
expand our screening tests to more groups in the community.
7.           To make testing more convenient, we will be SETTING UP
MORE REGIONAL SCREENING CENTRES (RSC) to support the needs of our
population. This will help to bring testing services closer to our
people, so that individuals with ARI, or those requiring regular routine
testing because they work in higher risk sectors, can gain access to
such services conveniently.
SAFEENTRY AND TRACETOGETHER TO STRENGTHEN CONTACT TRACING
8.           Quick and effective contract tracing is critical in
containing the pandemic. Once someone tests positive for COVID-19, the
work of contact tracing begins. We need to do activity mapping, and
identify close contacts, so as to ring-fence and contain any further
spread of the virus. Technology is a key enabler to allow us to conduct
meticulous contact tracing in a fast and efficient manner. Digital tools
like SafeEntry and TraceTogether help augment the manual contact tracing
process, and enable us to re-open confidently.
9.           Currently, all businesses and services that are in
operation are required to use SafeEntry, which helps to establish
specific times of entry and exit in enclosed venues for all visitors,
employees, associates and vendors. SafeEntry data helps to fill a
patient’s activity map quickly, so that activity mappers do not start on
a blank slate. The records also help to jog the patient’s memory, which
again helps to cut the time needed to do activity mapping. In parallel,
TraceTogether’s proximity data helps the authorities to quickly identify
people who have been in close contact with the patient. These digital
tools work in tandem to facilitate more accurate and faster contact
tracing.
10.           As we re-open and resume more activities in Phase 2, we
should be prepared for more community cases to emerge. As such, raising
the adoption level of TraceTogether is even more critical in this phase,
and beyond. There are currently 2 million users of the TraceTogether app
in Singapore. We encourage everyone to download and use the app. To
ensure everyone benefits from the TraceTogether Programme, we will be
providing TraceTogether Tokens to those who do not have smartphones or
the requisite smartphones for the app to work properly. The
TraceTogether Tokens will be rolled out from end June onwards, starting
with the elderly and then progressively to the rest of the population.
Details will be provided at a later date.
11.           These tools will help us improve the speed and accuracy
of our contact tracing efforts. When close contacts are quickly notified
and quarantined, we can stem the transmission, and prevent further
spread in the community.
COLLECTIVE EFFORT FOR A SAFE TRANSITION
12.           Along with our testing strategy and contract tracing
efforts, the implementation of strong infection control measures by all
stakeholders will help us to re-open in a safe way. All individuals must
play their part, and continue to practice strict safe distancing and
good personal hygiene, to reduce the risk of transmissions. With our
collective efforts, we can look forward to a safe re-opening and
resumption of activities.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 JUNE 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This refers to students aged 13-years-old and above. For younger
students, doctors will assess if a test is required, as younger children
require different clinical considerations than older children.

[2] This includes preschools (including early intervention centres),
primary and secondary schools (including student care centres), special
education schools, Institutes of Higher Learning and Private Education
Institutions.
