213 More Cases Discharged, 399 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



213 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 399 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 21 Jul 2020

          As of 21 July 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 399 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The higher number of cases today is mainly due to a batch of
test results from the previous day reported to MOH after the 12pm
cut-off for yesterday’s reporting. The breakdown of the cases is as
follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 3 (2 Work Pass holders, 1 Special Pass holder)
Amongst the imported cases, 2 (Cases 48148 and 48149) arrived in
Singapore from India on 9 July. They are Work Pass holders who are
currently employed in Singapore. They had been placed on 14-day
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and had been tested
while serving their SHN.
The remaining case (Case 48146) had arrived in Singapore from the
Philippines on 19 July, and was conveyed directly to the National Centre
for Infectious Diseases as he was symptomatic. He is a seaman currently
holding a Special Pass who will join a vessel that called in our Port.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 9 (1 Singaporean, 3 Work Pass holders, 5 Work
Permit holders)
Of the 9 cases in the community, 7 were picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and 2 had already been placed on
quarantine earlier. 8 of the cases are asymptomatic, and were detected
through our proactive testing.
3 of the community cases today are linked to previous cases or clusters.
Of these, 2 (Cases 48259 and 48513) had been identified as contacts of
previously confirmed cases, and had been placed on quarantine earlier.
They are asymptomatic and were tested during quarantine to determine
their status. The remaining case (Case 48154) is also asymptomatic, and
was swabbed as part of our efforts to screen individuals working in
frontline COVID-19 operations.
6 of the community cases are currently unlinked. All of them were
detected from our proactive screening of workers in essential services
who are living outside the dormitories, even though 5 of them are
asymptomatic.
Epidemiological investigations of the unlinked cases are in progress. In
the meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for their household contacts to
determine if these cases could have been infected by them.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 13 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 10 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 7 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 6 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 387
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.       Of the new cases, 96% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.      The Inter-Agency Task Force has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. Woodlands Lodge II (190 Woodlands
Industrial Park E7) and SSKBJV Dormitory (31A Tanah Merah Coast Road)
have been cleared, and now house only recovered individuals and those
who have recently tested negative for COVID-19 infection. As such, the
clusters have now been closed.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5.      In the past week (14 July to 20 July), MOH has uncovered links
for 2 previously unlinked cases in the community.
6.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.     213 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 44,584 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8.       There are currently 170 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 3,653 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 JULY 2020
