MOH Updates Public Health Travel Advisory in response to Cases of Novel
Coronavirus in China



MOH UPDATES PUBLIC HEALTH TRAVEL ADVISORY IN RESPONSE TO CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS IN CHINA


Published Date: 23 Jan 2020

­­

The Ministry of Health (MOH) has updated its public health travel
advisory, and advises Singaporeans to avoid travelling to Wuhan. This is
in view of the developing novel coronavirus situation in Wuhan and other
parts of China, as well as the temporary closure from today of airports
and train stations in Wuhan, and limited travel out of Wuhan.



1.  MOH also reminds the public to continue to exercise caution and
    attention to personal hygiene when travelling to the rest of China.



2.  Travellers should adopt the following precautions at all times:
    -   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
        consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
    -   Avoid crowded places and close contact with people who are
        unwell or showing symptoms of illness;
    -   Observe good personal hygiene;
    -   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
        food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied
        by respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
    -   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
        runny nose;
    -   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
        and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin
        immediately; and
    -   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
3.  All travellers should monitor their health closely for two weeks
    upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if they
    feel unwell, and also inform their doctor of their travel history.
    If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough, runny
    nose), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead of the
    visit.



4.  Given the evolving situation and ongoing investigations in China,
    Singapore residents who need to travel to the affected areas are
    advised to regularly check MOH’s website (www.moh.gov.sg) for
    updates. Travellers to China are also advised to stay vigilant,
    monitor developments and heed the advice of the local Chinese
    authorities while in China.


