958 More Cases Discharged, 675 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



958 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 675 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 13 May 2020

           As of 13 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 675 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A)  IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4 (2 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 2
Work Passes)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 8 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 6 per day in the
past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
decreased, from an average of 3 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 2 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 0

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has decreased, from an average of 6 cases per day in the
week before, to an average of 4 per day in the past week.

D)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 671

We continue to pick up many more cases amongst Work Permit holders
residing in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories,
because of extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process
to verify and test the status of all workers.

2.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.  Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.  In the past week (6 May to 12 May), MOH has uncovered
links for 104 previously unlinked cases.

5.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  958 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 4,809 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

7.             There are currently 1,037 confirmed cases who are still
in hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 19 are in
critical condition in the intensive care unit. 19,479 are isolated and
cared for at community facilities. These are those who have mild
symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19.
21 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection
