305 More Cases Discharged, 261 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



305 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 261 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 05 Jun 2020

  As of 5 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 261 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The lower number of cases today is partly due to fewer swabs
being conducted. The breakdown is as follows:

A)  IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 11 (6 Singaporeans/Permanent
Residents, 5 Work Permit holders)

Of the 11 cases in the community, 8 are asymptomatic, but we had swabbed
them as part of our proactive surveillance or to verify their status
during quarantine.

Amongst the 6 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 5 are linked to
previously confirmed cases, and had already been placed on quarantine. 1
is a Permanent Resident who stays at Cassia @ Penjuru dormitory, and was
proactively tested as part of our efforts to clear the dormitories.

Amongst the 5 Work Permit holders, 4 had been picked up as a result of
our proactive screening. Of these, 3 were tested before they are due to
start work in essential services, and 1 was tested as part of our
screening of migrant workers residing at shophouses located at Balestier
Road, due to their proximity to another cluster in the same area.
Epidemiological investigations are ongoing for the remaining case.

Besides the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, we also conducted
serological tests to determine if some of these cases are current or
past infections.  The serological test results of 3 cases (Cases 36970,
36971 and 36973) have come back positive, which indicate likely past
infections. Results are pending for the rest.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 5 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 6 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 2 per day in the past two weeks. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

C)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 250

We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.  Of the new cases, 97% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.

4.  MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to Acacia Home (30
Admiralty Street) for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days),
the cluster has now been closed.



LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.  In the past week (29 May to 4 June), MOH has uncovered
links for 6 previously unlinked cases.

6.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.  305 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 24,209 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

8.  There are currently 307 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,643 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 24 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
5 JUNE 2020
