Resumption of Use of Two Influenza Vaccines



RESUMPTION OF USE OF TWO INFLUENZA VACCINES


Published Date: 31 Oct 2020

     The Ministry of Health (MOH) has advised healthcare providers and
medical practitioners that the use of two influenza vaccines –
SKYCellflu Quadrivalent and VaxigripTetra – can be resumed as the
vaccines have been assessed to be safe for use. This follows a thorough
review of the information from the South Korean health authorities as
well as the Health Sciences Authority’s (HSA) further review of the
quality and safety profiles of the two vaccines.
2.    As a precautionary measure, MOH had on 25 October advised the
temporary cessation of the use of the two vaccines while MOH and HSA
assessed the implications of the reported deaths after influenza
vaccination in South Korea. Based on information released by the South
Korean health authorities on 29 October, the likelihood of a causal link
between influenza vaccination and the deaths reported was determined to
be low. South Korea’s investigations revealed that the causes of death
for 71 of the 72 deaths reported were highly likely due to underlying
diseases, while the remaining case is pending investigations. The South
Korean health authorities also found that no vaccine from any particular
manufacturer was associated with higher rates of reported deaths than
the others.
3.    HSA has reviewed the local adverse event reports as well as global
safety data of SKYCellflu Quadrivalent and VaxigripTetra vaccines. The
reported adverse events for the two vaccines are consistent with the
known safety profile of influenza vaccines. In addition, HSA has
reviewed the test reports of all batches of the two vaccines supplied in
Singapore and based on the available data, the two vaccines distributed
in Singapore meet the quality standards.
4.    To date, there are no safety and quality concerns with all
influenza vaccines available in Singapore for the Northern Hemisphere
2020-2021 influenza season –  Fluarix Tetra, Influvac Tetra, SKYCellflu
Quadrivalent and VaxigripTetra. MOH has informed healthcare providers
and medical practitioners that they may continue to offer influenza
vaccination using these vaccines.
5.     Like any medicine, vaccines can have side effects. Common side
effects from influenza vaccination may include soreness and redness at
the injection site, fever, headaches, muscle aches, fatigue and nausea.
These side effects are generally mild and resolve on their own. In rare
instances, a person may experience high fever or allergic reactions
(such as breathing difficulty, wheezing and swelling around the eyes)
and immediate medical attention should be sought.
6.     Influenza vaccination provides protection against seasonal
influenza viruses, and is effective in reducing the risk of
complications and deaths due to influenza. This is especially so for
vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the young, pregnant women, those
with certain pre-existing medical conditions. Those who are recommended
to receive influenza vaccination are strongly advised to do so for their
health and well-being.
7.    Public health safety is of utmost importance, and MOH takes
vaccine safety very seriously. MOH and HSA will continue to monitor for
any concerns related to influenza vaccination.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY
31 OCTOBER 2020
