Support for Seniors In Phase Two



SUPPORT FOR SENIORS IN PHASE TWO


Published Date: 17 Jun 2020

  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced that Phase Two will
commence on 19 June 2020, as community infection rates have remained
generally stable in Phase One. Seniors are especially vulnerable and
should be extra careful as more activities resume in Phase Two.

APPROACH FOR PHASE TWO

2.  In Phase Two, with more activities and interactions, there
will likely be a higher risk of community transmission. Therefore, we
encourage seniors to continue to stay home as much as possible and to
limit their interactions to a small regular circle of close contacts.
Households may receive up to five visitors a day, and visitors of
households with seniors should take extra care to maintain a safe
distance from seniors, and practise good hand hygiene. Seniors should
continue to avoid peak hours if they need to go out.

MORE SENIOR-CENTRIC ACTIVITIES WILL RESUME IN PHASE TWO

_Senior-centric activities may resume with precautions_

3.  Senior-centric activities organised by the People’s
Association, Health Promotion Board, Sport Singapore, and the Council
for Third Age (C3A) may resume. However, in order to keep interactions
low, these will be limited only to activities that can be done
individually, with no sharing of equipment between participants.
Examples include computer classes and health talks. These sessions will
be kept small for a start, and with safe distancing measures in place.
Since Phase One, Senior Activity Centres and Community Resource,
Engagement and Support Team (CREST) providers have progressively resumed
some individual activities on-site to address seniors’ psychosocial
needs, with restrictions on duration and total number of persons per
session. From Phase Two, we will ease these restrictions to allow more
seniors to benefit from these programmes, so long as safe distancing
measures are in place.

_More eldercare services resume_

4.  We will also resume day care services at most Senior Care
Centres and Active Ageing Hubs on 29 June 2020, to support seniors and
their caregivers who have to return to work in Phase Two. Providers will
contact clients and their caregivers to make the necessary arrangements
to return to the centre. All care staff will be tested for COVID-19
before resumption of day care services. We have tested more than 3,600
staff of non-residential community care services so far, and all results
were negative. This complements other measures such as safe distancing,
limiting group interactions, and ensuring good infection control
practices such as hand hygiene and wearing of masks, which providers
will continue to enforce to give clients and their caregivers peace of
mind.

_Face-to-face visitations at residential care homes may resume_

5.  We recognise that it has been a difficult period for
family members and caregivers who wish to visit their loved ones at
nursing homes. Visits will resume gradually and cautiously in Phase Two,
starting from 19 Jun. All nursing homes will need to put in place
additional precautionary measures to protect their residents, such as
setting aside dedicated visitation areas or safe distancing precautions,
and some would only start receiving visitors later after ensuring that
these measures are properly implemented. We would like to appeal to
family members for their patience and understanding.

6.  To minimise the risk of infection within the nursing
homes, each resident will be allowed a total of two designated visitors,
and only one may visit each day, with each visit limited to 30 minutes.
Visitors will be screened prior to entry, and should not visit if
unwell. In addition, the total number of visitors allowed each day in a
home will also be capped through appointments, especially during the
initial period, including the coming weekend of 20 June to 21 June.
Caregivers are thus encouraged to work with the nursing homes to make
appointments in advance, and to visit over the following weeks, instead
of rushing to visit over the coming weekend. We will review these
visitor management measures in the coming weeks, and may adjust
accordingly, depending on the risk of community transmission.

STEADY STEPS TOWARDS A NEW NORMAL

7.  We will continue to monitor the situation closely, with
the aim of continuing to ease measures until we reach a new normal in
Phase Three. We all have a role to play to make this happen. If we stay
disciplined and adhere to the safe management measures, we will be able
to take steady steps forward, and resume the activities we enjoy.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
17 JUNE 2020
