709 More Cases Discharged, 544 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



709 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 544 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 02 Jun 2020

1.     As of 2 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 544 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 0

    There are no imported cases today.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4 (1 Singaporean/Permanent Resident, 2 Work
    Pass holders, 1 Work Permit holder)

    The Singaporean/Permanent Resident case is a family member of a
    previously confirmed case, and had already been placed on quarantine
    earlier.

    Amongst the 3 Work Pass and Work Permit holders, 1 had been picked
    up as a result of our proactive screening of migrant workers working
    in essential services. 1 is a contact of a previously confirmed
    case, and had already been placed on quarantine earlier.
    Epidemiological investigations are ongoing for the remaining case.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased,
    from an average of 7 cases per day in the week before, to an average
    of 4 per day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
    community has remained stable at an average of 2 per day in the past
    two weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as
    well as the cases detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 540

We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.     In the past week (26 May to 1 June), MOH has uncovered links for
6 previously unlinked cases.

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     709 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 23,175 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 331 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 6 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,306 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 24 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
