263 More Cases Discharged, 301 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



263 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 301 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 06 Aug 2020

            As of 6 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 301 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 4 (1 Singaporean, 2 Work Pass holders, 1 Dependant’s
Pass holder)

Amongst the 4 imported cases, 1 (Case 54617) is a Singaporean who
returned to Singapore from Kazakhstan on 25 July. Another 2 cases (Cases
54619 and 54621) are Work Pass holders who are currently employed in
Singapore, and had arrived from India on 25 July. The remaining case
(Case 54620) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India on 25
July.

All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
arrival in Singapore, and were serving their SHN at dedicated
facilities. They had been tested while serving their SHN.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 4 (3 Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents, 1
Work Permit holder)

Of the 4 cases in the community, 2 were picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening. 2 of the cases are asymptomatic,
and were detected through our proactive testing

1 community case today is linked to a previous case. Case 54627 was
detected from our proactive screening of workers in essential services
who are living outside the dormitories, even though he is asymptomatic.
To determine if this is a current or past infection, we also conducted a
serological test for him, and the result has come back positive, which
indicates likely past infection[1].

3 community cases are currently unlinked. 1 (Case 54459) was swabbed as
part of our active case finding efforts. His serological test has come
back positive, indicating a likely past infection. The remaining 2 cases
were tested as part of our community testing. Case 54581 was detected
under our enhanced community testing to test all individuals aged 13 and
above who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first
presentation to a doctor. Case 54580 was tested after he sought medical
treatment for prolonged ARI symptoms.

Epidemiological investigations of the unlinked cases are in progress. In
the meantime, all the identified close contacts have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 3 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 2 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 1 case per day in the past 14 days. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 293

We continue to aggressively test the final batch of dormitory residents,
and remain on track to clear all the dormitories by 7 August, except for
a few standalone blocks in the dormitories that serve as quarantine
facilities. Depending on the prevalence of COVID-19 at the remaining
dormitories whose residents are being tested, the daily case counts may
vary. We expect the number to remain volatile in the coming days, before
tapering down thereafter as the Inter-agency Taskforce completes the
dormitory clearance.

2.          Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.          Of the new cases, 98% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.
4.            The Inter-agency Taskforce has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. The following dormitories have been
cleared, and now house only recovered individuals and those who have
recently tested negative for COVID-19 infection. As such, the clusters
have now been closed.

-   Lingjack Dormitory (1 Woodlands Terrace)

-   Beyond Tuas South Boulevard

-   5 Kaki Bukit Industrial Terrace

-   52 Kaki Bukit Industrial Terrace

-   13 Kaki Bukit Road 4

-   10 Kranji Link

-   119 Neythal Road

-   46 Tech Park Crescent

-   17 Tuas View Close

-   119 Tuas View Walk 1

-   107 West Coast Vale

-   5 Woodlands Industrial Park E1

-   182 Woodlands Industrial Park E5

-   208 Woodlands Industrial Park E5

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.          In the past week (30 July to 5 August), MOH has uncovered
links for 1 previously unlinked case in the community.
6.          Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.       263 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 48,031 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8.       There are currently 112 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 6,385 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
