New Personal Guide Based On 1-hr Pm2.5 Concentration Readings to Guide
the Public During Haze Season



NEW PERSONAL GUIDE BASED ON 1-HR PM2.5 CONCENTRATION READINGS TO GUIDE THE PUBLIC DURING HAZE SEASON


Published Date: 13 Jul 2020

1. The National Environment Agency (NEA) and the Ministry of Health
(MOH) have introduced a personal guide to the 1-hour average
concentration of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) to help individuals
decide on their immediate outdoor activities during the haze season. The
personal guide is now available on the haze microsite (www.haze.gov.sg)
and the myENV app.
USING THE 1-HR PM2.5 CONCENTRATION FOR IMMEDIATE/CURRENT ACTIVITIES
2. The 1-hr PM2.5 concentration is the average concentration of PM2.5,
in micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), measured in the air over the past
hour. Since 2014, NEA has been publishing the 1-hr PM2.5 concentration
readings on an hourly basis across the five regions in Singapore. The
1-hr PM2.5 concentration is a useful indication of the current air
quality. In 2016, NEA introduced bandings and descriptors to help the
public interpret the 1-hr PM2.5 concentration readings.
3. MOH and NEA are now making available a personal guide to the 1-hr
PM2.5 concentration level that the public can refer to when deciding on
their immediate activities, such as going for a walk or run (see Annex
A). The 1-hr PM2.5 concentration levels can be volatile and can
fluctuate over the day due to weather conditions, especially during
periods of transboundary haze. When planning activities within the same
day, members of the public are advised to closely monitor the 1-hr PM2.5
readings and check the latest readings before proceeding.
4. The public are advised to consider their own individual health and
physical conditions when using the personal guide. This is because each
individual’s reaction to pollutants may vary, and the amount of physical
exertion that can be performed differs. For the general population,
symptoms that may arise from short-term exposure to PM2.5, such as
throat or eye irritations, are expected to resolve after withdrawing
from the exposure.
USING THE 24-HR PSI FORECAST FOR FUTURE ACTIVITIES
5. To plan for the next day’s activities or events, individuals and
organisations should continue to refer to the 24-hr PSI forecast and
accompanying health advisory. The 24-hr PSI is a rolling average of the
PSI readings over the past 24 hours. Since 2013, during the Southwest
Monsoon months when there is likelihood of transboundary haze affecting
Singapore, NEA has been publishing a forecast of the 24-hr PSI for the
next 24 hours accompanied with a corresponding health advisory. The
forecast is based on NEA’s assessment of the air quality, weather
conditions, hotspot and haze situation in the region.
6. The Government’s Haze Task Force comprising 28 government agencies
and led by NEA will continue to use the 24-hr PSI forecast to implement
action plans to minimise and manage the impact of haze on Singapore,
guide risk assessment of immediate activities and advise major decisions
such as school closure and suspension of training or outdoor work.
7. Singapore’s air quality readings are taken from a network of air
quality monitoring stations across the island. Current air quality
readings, including the forecast range for the 24-hr PSI, as well as
NEA’s daily haze advisory¹ are available on NEA’s website
(www.nea.gov.sg), the haze microsite (www.haze.gov.sg), NEA’s Facebook
(www.facebook.com/NEASingapore) and Twitter (@NEAsg), and the myENV app.
[1] Forecast air quality readings and NEA’s daily haze advisory are only
available during periods of transboundary haze.
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AGENCY AND MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 JULY 2020
