Standardised Packaging & Enlarged Graphic Health Warnings Mandatory for
All Tobacco Products In Singapore From 1 July 2020



STANDARDISED PACKAGING & ENLARGED GRAPHIC HEALTH WARNINGS MANDATORY FOR ALL TOBACCO PRODUCTS IN SINGAPORE FROM 1 JULY 2020


Published Date: 29 Jun 2020

1.      As part of Singapore's continued efforts on tobacco control,
from 1 July 2020, all tobacco products sold in Singapore will be subject
to standardised packaging and enlarged graphic health warnings
(collectively, "the SP Measure"). The SP Measure applies to all tobacco
products, including cigarettes, cigarillos, cigars, beedies, _ang hoon_
and other roll-your-own tobacco products.
2.      The SP Measure for tobacco products is part of a multipronged
approach aimed, among others, at discouraging non-smokers from picking
up smoking, encouraging smokers to quit, and encouraging Singaporeans to
adopt a tobacco-free lifestyle, which will ultimately lead to reduced
smoking prevalence.
SP MEASURE
3.      The Ministry of Health (MOH) had announced the decision to
implement the SP Measure for all tobacco packaging on 31 October 2018,
after an extensive process of reviewing and evaluating the available
international and local studies, research and evidence on the SP
Measure, as well as several rounds of public consultations.
4.      Following the passage of amendments to the Tobacco (Control of
Advertisements and Sale) Act in March 2019, MOH introduced subsidiary
legislation to implement the SP Measure for all tobacco products in
Singapore. The Tobacco (Control of Advertisements and Sale) (Appearance,
Packaging and Labelling) Regulations 2019 ("SP Regulations") were
published on 1 July 2019 and will come into operation on 1 July 2020.
5.      The requirements set out in the SP Regulations encompass the
appearance, packaging and labelling on retail packaging of all tobacco
products and include:
(a) The removal of all logos, colours, images and promotional
information on the packaging of tobacco products (other than brand names
and variant names displayed in a standard colour and font style); and
(b) An increase in the minimum size of the mandatory graphic health
warnings from the existing 50% to 75% of all specified tobacco product
packaging surfaces.
Guidance on what the SP Measure may look like on different tobacco
packaging formats can be found in the Health Promotion Board's (HPB)
Standardised Packaging Guidance Booklet
at https://www.hpb.gov.sg/healthy-living/substance-abuse/standardised-packaging-guidance-booklet.
6.      From 1 July 2020, all tobacco products imported into,
distributed, sold, offered for sale or possessed for sale in Singapore
must comply with the SP Regulations. Non-compliance with the SP
Regulations is an offence punishable with a fine not exceeding $10,000,
imprisonment for a term of up to six months, or both for first
offenders. Those with a prior qualifying conviction will face heavier
penalties.
7.      A period of 12 months' notice from 1 July 2019 was given to
tobacco manufacturers, importers, wholesalers and retailers to adjust
and prepare for the full implementation of the SP Measure from 1 July
2020. This included a three-month transition period from 1 April 2020 to
30 June 2020. Tobacco products with standardised packaging have been
imported into Singapore since April 2020 and have already been
distributed to retailers during the transition period. The Health
Sciences Authority (HSA) had also issued letters and email circulars to
remind tobacco licensees of the SP Regulations and their obligations.
SINGAPORE'S CONTINUED EFFORTS ON TOBACCO CONTROL
8.      Tobacco use is associated with cancers (e.g. mouth, lung),
ischaemic heart disease, stroke, lung disease and many other diseases.
It is the second highest contributor to ill health and premature death
in Singapore. Together with HPB, HSA, our partners and the wider
community, MOH seeks to reduce smoking prevalence in Singapore for
positive public health outcomes.
9.      The range of other tobacco control measures include public
education, taxation, smoking cessation programmes, bans on tobacco
advertising, the point-of-sale display ban and the institution of a
minimum legal age for tobacco.
