Additional Pre-emptive Measures to Reduce Risk of Community Transmission



ADDITIONAL PRE-EMPTIVE MEASURES TO REDUCE RISK OF COMMUNITY TRANSMISSION


Published Date: 14 Feb 2020

              The Ministry of Health (MOH) is re-activating the Public
Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) to focus our primary care efforts to
better detect and manage COVID-19 infections. MOH has also observed that
many of the local confirmed cases had continued to circulate in the
community or gone to work when they were already ill. This is why MOH
had earlier given guidance to doctors to provide medical certificates
(MC) of five days for patients with respiratory symptoms so they could
stay home to recover.
2.          Based on the COVID-19 cases in Singapore so far, the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) has observed that a
significant number of them have mild symptoms in the initial phase of
infection. Similar to influenza, these patients typically experience
mild flu-like symptoms such as fever and cough. And similar to
influenza, they can be infectious during this initial period of mild
symptoms. The risk of their infecting others can be reduced with
appropriate measures. 

3.            In fact, most patients with respiratory symptoms are not
infected with COVID-19.But we must take extra precautions. It is
therefore important that anyone with respiratory symptoms (such as
fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose) seek medical treatment early,
and stay home throughout their illness. We urge all individuals and
employers to cooperate, and follow strictly the five-day MC regime that
has been put in place. In addition, we will be taking further
pre-emptive measures to reduce the risk of community transmission. 

Re-activation of Public Health Preparedness Clinics

4.           We currently have about 900 general practitioner (GP)
clinics designated as PHPCs. They were activated previously to deal with
haze and the H1N1 influenza pandemic. These preparedness clinics provide
subsidised treatment, investigations and medications during outbreaks,
and play an important role during public health outbreaks. 

5.           From 18 February, the preparedness clinics will be
progressively activated to care for patients with respiratory symptoms,
such as fever, cough, sore throat and runny nose. Patients suspected to
have pneumonia will be referred to the hospitals for further tests and
care.
6.           The preparedness clinics will provide special subsidies for
Singapore Citizens and Permanent Resident diagnosed with respiratory
illnesses. Patients with respiratory symptoms can also go to the
polyclinics, where the subsidies will also apply.(Please refer to the
Annex for the subsidies.)

7.          PHPCs have been guided on the appropriate care protocols
according to the assessed risk and diagnosis of each patient, and will
be supplied with the necessary Personal Protection Equipment to carry
out their role. Please refer to flugowhere.gov.sg for the updated list
of PHPCs. Members of the public can also identify these preparedness
clinics from the PHPC decal at these clinics. 

8.             The activation of PHPCs and polyclinics will allow us to
enhance and tighten disease surveillance. We would be better able to
detect the virus earlier, and reduce the risk of further transmission.

Extended medical certificates

9.           Healthcare professionals have been advised to provide
medical certificates of five days for their patients with respiratory
symptoms. Patients will be referred for further medical assessment and
tests if they do not recover within five days. Should their symptoms
persist or deteriorate, patients are advised to return to the same
doctor to seek further treatment.

10.               Patients must recognise the importance of staying home
when unwell. Mixing in large crowds, or continuing to go to work or
school when ill, even with mild symptoms, will put others at risk.

EXERCISING GOOD SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY

11.            With the enhanced detection and surveillance, we expect
to see more confirmed COVID-19 cases in the coming days. The measures we
are putting in place will allow us to intervene early in the infection.
Activating the PHPCs is a proactive step to reduce the risk of further
community spread of the virus. 

12.            These measures will only be effective if everyone plays
their part, and exercises social responsibility. The most effective
method to prevent transmission remains through good personal hygiene of
regular hand washing with soap and water, and the use of hand sanitisers
when soap and water are unavailable. We should avoid touching our face
with our hands unnecessarily. Those who are unwell should see a doctor
early and stay home to prevent further spread of their illness to
others.

 Annex

 
