777 More Cases Discharged, 214 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



777 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 214 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 15 Jun 2020

     As of 15 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 214 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 3 (3 Work Permit holders)
There are no Singaporean/ Permanent Resident cases today. All 3 cases in
the community are Work Permit holders who were detected as a result of
our efforts to screen workers in essential services, even though they
are asymptomatic.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 9 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 8 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 4 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 3 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 211
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2.    Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.     Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.    The Inter-Agency Task Force has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. Westlite Juniper (23 Mandai Estate) and
the dormitory at 21 Defu South Street 1 have been cleared, and now house
only recovered individuals and those who have recently tested negative
for COVID-19 infection. As such, the clusters have now been closed.
5.    We announced on 13 June that a student at St Anthony’s Canossian
Secondary School had tested positive for COVID-19. As a precaution, 47
students and 12 staff who had been in close contact with the student
have been put on Leave of Absence by the Ministry of Education or Home
Quarantine Order by MOH. The 47 students and 12 staff have been tested
for COVID-19, and their test results have all come back negative.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
6.    In the past week (8 June to 14 June), MOH has uncovered links for
11 previously unlinked cases.
7.    Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
8.    777 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 30,366 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
9.    There are currently 243 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 10,183 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 JUNE 2020
