3 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



3 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 24 Oct 2020

1.      As of 24 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 3 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Of these, 2 are in the community, and 1 resides in a
dormitory. In addition, there are 11 imported cases, who had all been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst the
new cases today, 12 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were symptomatic.
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY





NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

2



0

2



2

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1



0

1



0

1

IMPORTED CASES

11



11

0



0

11

TOTAL

14













2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased
from 4 cases in the week before, to 3 in the past week. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has increased from 1 case in the week
before, to 3 in the past week. We will continue to closely monitor these
numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.
CASE DETAILS
A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2
There are 2 cases in the community today who are currently unlinked.
Case 58125 is a security officer at Changi Airport Terminal 3. Prior to
hospital admission, he had gone to work, as well as visited the
Singapore National Eye Centre for treatment of a non-related medical
condition. Case 58138 is a temperature screener and swab assistant at
Raffles Medical at Changi Airport Terminal 3, and had gone to work prior
to hospital admission. Both cases were detected under our enhanced
community testing to test all individuals aged 13 and above who are
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first presentation
to a doctor. This allows us to identify infected individuals early and
to quickly contain further spread.
While both cases work at Changi Airport Terminal 3, they had not
interacted with each other, and epidemiological investigations so far
have not established any link between them. As a precautionary measure,
all individuals working at Changi Airport Terminal 3 who may have
contact with travellers will be tested for COVID-19.
As travel volume is expected to pick up in the coming months, MOH has
been in discussion with relevant agencies to ramp up Rostered Routine
Testing of frontline staff working at Changi Airport. More details will
be provided later.
B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1
There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. He was detected through
our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in dormitories.
This allows us to pick up cases early, including asymptomatic ones, so
that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to prevent further
transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and isolating the
close contacts.
C)  IMPORTED CASES: 11
Amongst the 11 imported cases, 3 (Cases 58131, 58135 and 58136) are
Singaporeans and 1 (Case 58130) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who
returned from India and the Philippines. Another 3 (Cases 58126, 58127
and 58128) are Work Permit holders currently employed in Singapore who
arrived from Indonesia and the Philippines. 3 more cases are a Student's
Pass holder (Case 58133) who arrived from France and 2 Long-Term Visit
Pass holders (Cases 58129 and 58134) who arrived from India and
Indonesia. The remaining case (Case 58137) is a Short-Term Visit Pass
holder who arrived from India. She was allowed entry into Singapore as
her parent is a Singapore Permanent Resident.
They had all been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were
tested while serving SHN.
3.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH's daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).
4.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex A and Annex B for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.  12 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,844 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.  There are currently 53 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 40 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

