Easing the Tighter Circuit Breaker Measures, Preparing for Gradual
Resumption of Activity After 1 June



EASING THE TIGHTER CIRCUIT BREAKER MEASURES, PREPARING FOR GRADUAL RESUMPTION OF ACTIVITY AFTER 1 JUNE


Published Date: 02 May 2020

               The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will ease some of the
tighter circuit breaker measures, which were announced on 21 April 2020,
progressively over the coming weeks. At the same time, we are preparing
for the safe and gradual resumption of economic and community activities
after the end of the circuit breaker period on 1 June 2020. We will be
tapping on digital solutions, such as the SafeEntry check-in system, and
deploying them more pervasively when we resume these activities.
2.             With everyone playing their part and observing safe
distancing measures, we have seen a significant decrease in community
transmission over the past month. The average daily number of new cases
in the community has dropped by more than half, from 25 in the week
before, to 12 in the past week.
3.             That said, we are not out of the woods. There are still
unlinked cases in the community and new clusters may form if we let our
guard down. We must be cautious in how we lift the restrictions, and put
in place further safeguards even as we do so.
GRADUAL REOPENING OF WORK PREMISES AND ECONOMY
4.             We plan to phase in the reopening of work premises,
taking into account their importance to the economy and supply chains,
their contribution to local employment, and their ability to minimise
risks of transmission at their workplaces. To do so safely, we will
impose more stringent requirements on all employers and firms.
5.             In particular, all companies must put in place safe
management practices as an integral part of their operations. This means
proactively identifying situations and practices which have higher
infection risks, and implementing appropriate precautions and
safeguards.
6.             For example, companies must continue to allow staff to
work from home wherever possible; enforce safe distancing amongst their
employees at the workplace; stagger working hours and break times; and
ensure no cross-deployment of staff across teams or worksites. They
should also require every employee to wear a mask at work, and ensure
that there are no gatherings amongst their staff (i.e. they should not
be interacting at staff canteens, or going out in groups during lunch
breaks). Further details on the specific workplace measures will be
announced by the Ministry of Manpower, Ministry of Trade and Industry
and relevant agencies in due course.
7.             Over the coming weeks, we will work closely with the
Trade Associations and Business Chambers to engage businesses and help
them prepare to meet the more stringent safe management requirements
when they reopen.
GRADUAL RESUMPTION OF SELECTED ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES
8.             The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will allow the gradual
resumption of selected activities and services in the coming weeks,
subject to the necessary safe management measures being in place.
9.             From 5 May 2020, Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM)
needle acupuncture will be allowed, for pain management only (excluding
cupping, moxibustion, _guasha_ and _tuina_ manipulative therapies), if
assessed by the TCM practitioner to be essential. TCM halls with
registered TCM practitioners will also be allowed to sell retail
products. This is on top of the consultation and herbal dispensary
services which they are already allowed to provide.
10.            From 5 May 2020, residents living in strata-titled
residential buildings may exercise within the common areas of these
private residential developments such as footpaths, but must continue to
practise safe distancing measures. In other words, the same rules that
apply in public areas will also apply within the common areas of these
developments. Enforcement officers will conduct periodic checks and
inspections, and the Management Corporations (MCST) and Managing Agents
should also do their part to ensure compliance with these measures. All
sports and recreational facilities within these private residential
developments such as playgrounds, pools, gyms, barbecue pits and club
houses are to remain closed.
11.             From 12 May 2020, the following will be allowed to
resume operations:
a.    Manufacturing and onsite preparation of all food, including cakes
and confectionery, ice cream, cocoa, chocolate and chocolate products,
and other snacks;
b.    Retail outlets of food, including cakes and confectionery,
packaged snacks and desserts, may be open for takeaway and delivery
only;
c.    Home-based food businesses may operate, but only for delivery or
collection. Home-based private dining will not be allowed. Delivery and
collection of food orders should be done in a safe and contactless
manner, by appointment so that it can be spaced out, and there is no
bunching of people. Details will be provided separately;
d.    Retail laundry services;
e.    Barbers and hairdressers, for basic haircut services; and
f.     Retail of pet supplies.
12.             The list of activities that will be allowed to operate,
and relevant further information, will be updated at
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/essentialservices.
13.             Learning has continued during the circuit breaker period
through Home-Based Learning. But we recognise the anxiety amongst
students and parents of graduating cohorts, who have to take the
national examinations this year. From 19 May 2020, schools will bring
back students from graduating cohorts in small groups for face-to-face
consultations and lessons. Priority will be given to students requiring
school facilities for coursework and practical sessions, and those who
need additional support and remediation during the school vacation
period. Institutes of Higher Learning (IHLs), especially the Institute
of Technical Education, will also bring back small groups of students on
campus for critical consultations, projects or practicums. We will
stagger the students’ return to schools and IHLs throughout the day.
They will practise safe distancing and safe management measures, such as
keeping to separate groups within their cohort.
14.             In the migrant worker dormitories, the number of cases
is still high. The restriction on daily movement of workers in and out
of all dormitories (i.e. Purpose Built Dormitories, Factory Converted
Dormitories, Construction Temporary Quarters and Temporary Occupation
Licence quarters) will therefore be extended to the end of the circuit
breaker period, i.e. until 1 June 2020 (inclusive). This will minimise
the risk of further community transmission of COVID-19.
15.             The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will closely observe the
trends over the coming weeks, and adjust further as necessary.
LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY TO ENABLE SAFE RESUMPTION OF ACTIVITIES
16.             There will likely still be some cases in our community
even after the circuit breaker period. We must be able to quickly
contact trace and isolate close contacts of these infected individuals.
We will leverage technology to speed up contact tracing, so that we can
more effectively prevent the formation of new infection clusters, and
enable the safe resumption of activities.
17.             SafeEntry was deployed by the Government on 23 April
2020 to log the names, NRIC/FINs and mobile numbers of individuals
visiting hotspots, workplaces of essential services, as well as selected
public venues. Such details are necessary for the Government to carry
out contact tracing quickly and effectively, should the need arise.
Users check-in by scanning a QR code displayed at the venue with their
phone, or by having any identification card with a barcode scanned e.g.
NRIC, driver’s licence, student pass and work permit.
18.             To further support our contact tracing efforts,
SafeEntry must be deployed extensively across Singapore, especially at
places with a higher risk of non-transient contact. This would include
workplaces, malls and supermarkets. From 12 May 2020, all businesses and
services that are in operation must come on board the SafeEntry system
to log the check-in and check-out of employees and visitors.
19.             At places with transient populations on-the-move such as
MRT stations and parks, there will not be mandatory SafeEntry
checkpoints. But QR codes will be put up, and we encourage the public to
scan in so that they may be reached should the need for contact tracing
arise. Contact data collected by SafeEntry is only used by authorised
personnel for contact tracing purposes, and stringent measures are in
place to safeguard the data in accordance with the Government’s data
security standards. We will announce details of the list of venues for
deployment in the next few days.
20.             We are also working to improve our digital tools to
enable speedier contact tracing. In the meantime, we encourage more
Singaporeans to download and actively use the TraceTogether app. The app
uses Bluetooth proximity data to establish close contact between two
users. We are working with Apple/Google to make the app more effective
on iOS phones. We are also looking into solutions for groups like the
elderly and the young who do not have smartphones. We will announce more
details in the coming weeks.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS KEY
21.             Social responsibility is critical in slowing the spread
of COVID-19. Even as the circuit breaker measures are gradually eased,
all of us should continue to stay at home as much as possible, and
minimise movement outside the home. In the community and at workplaces,
we must keep up good habits such as safe distancing, personal hygiene
and wearing of masks. This must be our new normal in a COVID-19 world.
