838 More Cases Discharged, 614 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



838 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 614 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 22 May 2020

  As of 22 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 614 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A)  IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY¹ : 4 (4 Singaporeans/Permanent
Residents)

The number of new cases in the community has increased, from an average
of 5 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 7 per day in the
past week. This is partly due to our active surveillance and screening
of nursing home residents and pre-school staff, which have picked up
more cases in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the
community has remained stable at an average of 2 per day in the past two
weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the
cases detected through our surveillance programme.

C)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 610

We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.  Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.



LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.  In the past week (15 May to 21 May), MOH has uncovered
links for 2 previously unlinked cases.

5.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.  838 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 12,955 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

7.  There are currently 798 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and eight are in
critical condition in the intensive care unit. 16,650 are isolated and
cared for at community facilities. These are those who have mild
symptoms, or are clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19.
23 have passed away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
22 MAY 2020

¹ Previously we had tracked the work permit holders living outside
dormitories as a separate category, and put a large number of these
workers on Stay Home Notices (SHN). The SHN for these workers has since
expired. Hence we have now updated the definition of “Cases in the
Community” to include all cases (including amongst Work Permit holders)
who are detected outside of the dormitories.
