Updated Border Measures for Travellers From the Republic of Korea



UPDATED BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA


Published Date: 26 Aug 2020

             The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring
the COVID-19 situation in the Republic of Korea. There have been
reported clusters in gatherings at places of worship that have spread to
workplaces. Authorities in the Republic of Korea have warned of a
possible nationwide outbreak. Across the Republic of Korea, stricter
social distancing measures have been imposed.

2.  Given the resurgence in the number of cases in the
Republic of Korea, we will adjust our border measures. Travellers
entering Singapore from 29 AUGUST 2020, 0000 HOURS, who have recent
travel history, including transit, to the Republic of Korea, within the
last 14 days will be required to serve a 14 day Stay-Home Notice (SHN)
at dedicated SHN facilities instead of their own place of residence. __
They will also need to undergo a COVID-19 test before the end of their
SHN, as is the current requirement.

3.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to
adjust our border measures to manage the risk of importation and
transmission to the community. Travellers planning to enter Singapore
must be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon
entry, including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities and
tests, where applicable [1].  We will continue to review the situation
and adjust our border measures accordingly.

4.  We must continue to remain vigilant in our efforts to
control the spread of the virus.



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who last left before 27
Mar 2020 will not be required to pay for their stay at dedicated SHN
facility but will still be required to pay for their COVID-19 test when
entering Singapore from 1 September 2020 (waived if they enter by 31 Aug
2020). All other travellers must pay for their stay at dedicated SHN
facility and COVID-19 test.
