Further Resumption of Activities for Seniors



FURTHER RESUMPTION OF ACTIVITIES FOR SENIORS


Published Date: 09 Sep 2020

1.      The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will be resuming more
senior-centric activities carefully as community infection rates have
remained generally low and stable. As more activities resume, we urge
seniors to remain vigilant, conscientiously practise hand hygiene and
safe distancing and to continue to keep to a small regular circle of
contacts when going out.
RESUMING ACTIVITIES TO ADDRESS THE PSYCHO-SOCIAL NEEDS OF SENIORS
2.  Small group activities of up to 5 pax may resume for
senior-centric programmes organised by the People's Association, Health
Promotion Board, Sport Singapore, and the Council for Third Age. They
will also be allowed to resume in our eldercare facilities (i.e. Nursing
Homes, Senior Care Centres, Active Ageing Hubs, Senior Activity Centres,
Community Resource, Engagement and Support Team centres). Examples of
group activities include board games and group exercise classes. At the
start of Phase Two, we had limited activities in such settings to only
those that can be done individually so as to keep interactions low.
Nevertheless, group activities are an integral part of senior-centric
programmes as they help address psychosocial needs and contribute to
better health outcomes. From 9 September 2020, we will ease the earlier
restrictions so that more seniors can benefit from these programmes, so
long as safe distancing measures are in place.
OUTREACH ACTIVITIES BY ELDERCARE PROGRAMMES AND SILVER GENERATION OFFICE
TO RESUME
3.  We will also resume proactive outreach by Silver Generation
Ambassadors, Senior Activity Centres, Community Resource, Engagement and
Support Teams and diabetes outreach activities from 9 September 2020
with safe distancing measures in place. While health and social care
services are available, some seniors may not know where to seek help and
may have deferred accessing community care services. This would affect
their health if the deferment is prolonged. We will resume outreach
programmes to ensure we can proactively engage seniors with care needs
and render assistance in a timely manner.
STAYING SAFE AND HEALTHY IN THE NEW COVID-NORMAL
4.  During this COVID-19 pandemic, some seniors may be hesitant to
go for medical appointments for fear of being exposed to COVID-19 at
healthcare institutions or care facilities. To avoid potential
deterioration of their medical conditions and allow for timely attention
to other health needs, we urge seniors to continue to attend their
medical appointments. Healthcare providers would have put in place the
necessary precautions for patients to access services and receive
treatments safely. Older patients in need of assistance may reach out to
their respective public healthcare institutions or contact the AIC
Hotline at 1800-650-6060.
5.  We will continue to monitor the situation closely, with the aim
of continuing to ease measures until we reach a new normal in Phase
Three. We will be able to stay safe and progress towards a new normal so
long as everyone plays their part and exercises social responsibility.
