1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 21 Dec 2020

  As of 21 December 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
preliminarily confirmed 1 new case of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. Based on our investigations so far, the case is in the
community, and there are no new cases in the dormitories.

2.  In addition, there are 9 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival in
Singapore. In total, there are 10 new cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore today.

3.  We are still working through the details of the cases, and
further updates will be shared via the MOH press release that will be
issued tonight.



INVESTIGATIONS INTO 13 CASES WHO SERVED SHN AT MANDARIN ORCHARD
SINGAPORE

4.  As announced on 19 December, MOH is investigating 13
cases  of COVID-19 infection amongst individuals who had served SHN at
Mandarin Orchard Singapore between 22 October and 11 November 2020. As a
precautionary measure to ensure the safety of all guests, the hotel has
stopped accepting new guests since 19 December, and all existing guests
checked out by 9pm on 20 December. All individuals serving SHN at
Mandarin Orchard Singapore have been transported via dedicated vehicles
to an alternative SHN dedicated facility on 20 December.

5.  MOH has completed our special testing operations to test
all individuals serving SHN at Mandarin Orchard Singapore, as well as
staff of the hotel. In total, 394 persons serving SHN at the hotel have
been swabbed. Of these, 391 were tested negative while 3 (Cases 58656,
58657 and 58658) were tested positive on 20 December and were
immediately conveyed to the hospital via ambulance. As they have recent
travel history, it is likely that these are imported cases who were
infected while they were overseas. Nevertheless the National Public
Health Laboratory will conduct whole genome sequencing and phylogenetic
analysis to determine if they could be linked to the 13 cases. These
cases were announced by MOH on 20 December, and included in our daily
case count.

6.  In total, we have tested 571 staff of Mandarin Orchard
Singapore, and 570 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test results have
come back negative for COVID-19 infection. MOH is facilitating testing
for the remaining individual who has yet to be PCR tested. The
serological tests of 8 more staff have come back positive, indicating
likely past infections, in addition to the 3 announced yesterday.
Epidemiological investigations of these 11 cases are in progress. In the
meantime, we will test their identified close contacts as a
precautionary measure, and also conduct serological tests to determine
if these individuals could have been infected by them.

7.  Singapore reports COVID-19 cases in accordance with
international practice. Every case who tested positive through a PCR
test and is assessed to be an acute infection is reported and included
in our case count. We follow the World Health Organization’s criterion
that only positive results from confirmatory tests (i.e. PCR tests) are
included in the case count. This ensures consistency in reporting cases
across countries. The 11 cases whose serological tests have come back
positive, but whose PCR test results are negative for COVID-19
infection, are therefore not included in our daily case count.

8.  Travellers entering Singapore are subjected to the
prevailing border measures upon entry, including SHN and COVID-19 tests,
where applicable. Hotels used as SHN dedicated facilities have strict
protocols to which all travellers subjected to SHN must adhere to.
Regular checks on these hotels are conducted to ensure that safe
management measures are complied with, and security measures are in
place. These  measures have helped to mitigate the risk of importation
and transmission, but travellers must themselves also remain vigilant,
and take all precautionary measures to protect themselves and their
travelling companions.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 DECEMBER 2020
