No New Confirmed Cases of Novel Coronavirus Infection in Singapore



NO NEW CONFIRMED CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 03 Feb 2020

                As of 3 February 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has not been notified of any new confirmed cases of 2019 novel
coronavirus (2019-nCoV) infection in Singapore. Eighteen confirmed
imported cases were earlier announced by MOH.
2.             There is currently no evidence of community spread in
Singapore.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
3.             None of the 18 previously announced cases is critically
ill. All of them remain in stable condition, and most are improving. 
UPDATE ON SUSPECT CASES
4.             As of 3 February, 12pm, 262 of the suspect cases have
tested negative for 2019-nCoV, and 18 have tested positive. Test results
for the remaining 32 cases are pending.
UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES
5.             Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.
6.             As of 3 February, 12pm, MOH has identified 256 close
contacts. Of the 187 who are still in Singapore, 186 have been contacted
and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact
the remaining close contact.
HEALTH ADVISORY
7.             Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
8.             All travellers should monitor their health closely for
two weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly
if they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their
travel history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g.
cough, shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic
ahead of the visit.
9.             Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:
·      Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
·      Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing
symptoms of illness;
·      Observe good personal hygiene;
·      Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
·      Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath;
·      Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
·      Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
10.          MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases who have
recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more cases that will
need to be investigated.
