New Inpatient Palliative Care Service From 1 April 2020



NEW INPATIENT PALLIATIVE CARE SERVICE FROM 1 APRIL 2020


Published Date: 31 Mar 2020

      The Ministry of Health (MOH) will launch the Inpatient Hospice
Palliative Care Service (IHPCS) on 1 April 2020 to provide
patient-centric and seamless care to patients receiving inpatient
palliative care. This new service is in line with MOH’s ongoing efforts
to improve the quality, accessibility and affordability of palliative
care.
CONTINUED ENHANCEMENTS TO PALLIATIVE CARE IN THE COMMUNITY
2     In view of the varied models of care across inpatient palliative
care services, the Inpatient Palliative Care Review Workgroup,
co-chaired by Dr Angel Lee (Medical Director of St Andrew’s Community
Hospital and then-Chairman of the Singapore Hospice Council), and
then-Deputy Director of Medical Services Associate Professor Kenneth
Mak, was set up to review the inpatient palliative care landscape.
3     The Workgroup recommended consolidating the existing inpatient
services offered in community hospitals and inpatient hospices into a
single service type, with a standardised service framework centred
around patients’ needs instead of defining it by setting. MOH accepted
the recommendation and has been working closely with inpatient
palliative care providers to launch IHPCS.

LAUNCH OF IHPCS

4     With the IHPCS, a common service framework will be introduced to
ensure that all service providers are able to provide a standard scope
of services to meet the needs of palliative patients, tiered into
general and specialised palliative care.[1]

-   General palliative care is for patients with palliative care needs
    that require inpatient management. Examples include relieving
    symptoms such as pain and breathlessness through oral and
    subcutaneous medication, as well as socio-emotional support for
    patients and caregivers during this difficult time in their lives.

&nbsp;
-   Specialised palliative care is for patients with complex needs that
    require higher levels of care (compared with general palliative
    care). Examples include the administration of intravenous medication
    and specialised wound care for complex wounds.

5     Patients will be assigned to the appropriate tier based on their
goals of care and needs. Each patient’s assigned tier will be regularly
reviewed and updated by doctors as needed.
6     The framework will also allow patients with fluctuating care
needs due to changes in their health condition to be cared for in the
same location. This promotes continuity of care and minimises the need
for transfers to different care facilities. As all providers will be
required to provide a standard scope of services, patients also have the
option of a wider range of providers and can be more assured that their
care needs will be fulfilled regardless of setting.
7     All existing inpatient hospices and community hospitals offering
inpatient palliative services will transit to offer IHPCS with effect
from 1 April 2020.[2] Patients can be admitted to IHPCS from acute
hospitals. In addition, under IHPCS, we will also allow direct referrals
from the community, such as from General Practitioners and Home
Palliative Care providers. The expansion of referral pathways will
improve the accessibility of inpatient palliative care for patients who
require it and facilitate the right-siting of patients.

EXTENSION OF SUBSIDIES TO PATIENTS ON IHPCS

8     Singapore residents admitted into IHPCS are eligible for
means-tested Government subsidies of up to 75%. To better support
patients who require inpatient palliative care, MediShield Life coverage
will be extended to all IHPCS patients, and MediSave withdrawal limits
will be increased for patients with more complex needs (see Table 1).
9     The extension of MediShield Life coverage to IHPCS was
recommended by the MediShield Life Council as part of their on-going
review of MediShield Life benefits and premiums, which is expected to be
completed by end 2020.
10     With the launch of IHPCS on 1 April, this enhancement is
implemented ahead of the completion of the MediShield Life review so
that patients can benefit earlier. Singaporeans who cannot afford their
bills after subsidies, MediShield Life and MediSave, may apply for
MediFund.

Table 1: MediShield Life and MediSave Limits for IHPCS

  ------------------------------ ------------------------- -------------------
                                 MediShield Life limits    MediSave limits
  General palliative care         $250/day                  $250/day
   Specialised palliative care    $350/day                  $350/day
  ------------------------------ ------------------------- -------------------

11     Minister for Health Mr Gan Kim Yong said, “The introduction of
the IHPCS will improve patients’ access to high quality, patient-centric
and holistic inpatient palliative care. In particular, patients using
IHPCS will be able to access inpatient palliative care in a single
setting even if their care needs change. With the various affordability
enhancements, including the extension of MediShield Life coverage to
IHPCS, we seek to provide greater reassurance to end-of-life patients
and their caregivers.”
12     The launch of IHPCS complements MOH’s enhancements to palliative
care to better address the needs of the community. As most Singaporeans
wish to be cared for at home at the end of life, we have expanded the
capacity of home palliative care and day hospice services and increased
financial support for these services. Since 2019, we have also
introduced a home-based respite care service for home palliative care
patients and their caregivers.
13     For more information on IHPCS and other Intermediate and
Long-Term Care Services, patients and their caregivers can visit the
Agency for Integrated Care’s website or approach their regular doctors
or medical social workers.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] With the exception of St Joseph’s Home, which will only provide
general palliative care.

[2] Existing inpatient hospice providers are: Assisi Hospice, Bright
Vision Hospital, Dover Park Hospice and St Joseph’s Home. Existing
Community Hospital-Palliative providers are: Ang Mo Kio-Thye Hua Kwan
Hospital, Sengkang Community Hospital, St Andrew’s Community Hospital,
St Luke’s Hospital and Yishun Community Hospital.

