Final Stretch of Dormitory Clearance; Further Steps Towards A New Covid
Normal



FINAL STRETCH OF DORMITORY CLEARANCE; FURTHER STEPS TOWARDS A NEW COVID NORMAL


Published Date: 06 Aug 2020

       Over the coming weeks, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue
taking further steps towards a new COVID-normal. We are in the final
stretch of dormitory clearances, which will allow the vast majority of
workers to resume work by mid to late August 2020. As we gradually open
our borders, we are adjusting our charging policy for COVID-19 treatment
to support returning travellers should they be infected while
participating in permitted essential travel. While more activities and
events are allowed to resume over time, most events should remain fully
virtual or hybrid physical-virtual where possible to protect our loved
ones and fellow Singaporeans.
PROGRESS OF DORMITORY CLEARANCE
2.     The Inter-agency Taskforce will complete the testing of all
workers in the dormitories by 7 August 2020. This means that all the
dormitories will be COVID-cleared, with the exception of several
standalone blocks which serve as quarantine facilities.
3.      The workers in these quarantine facilities will be tested when
their isolation ends, and case counts will remain high. After completing
their isolation, most of the workers will be able to resume work once
the dormitory operators and employers complete the necessary
preparations to do so in a safe manner.
EXPEDITING THE RETURN OF WORKERS TO WORK
4.      Government agencies are also working closely with the employers
to ensure that their workers practise safe living and safe distancing
measures at sites and dormitories.  With the completion of dormitory
clearance and facilitation of resumption of work by sector agencies, we
expect the vast majority of dormitory residents to be able to resume
work by mid to late August (i.e. have AccessCode green).
REVISED CHARGING POLICY FOR COVID-19 TREATMENT FOR TRAVELLERS
5.     The Government has been bearing the costs of inpatient medical
bills for Singapore Citizens (SCs)/ Permanent Residents (PRs)/ Long-Term
Pass Holders (LTPHs) who require treatment for COVID-19 at public
healthcare institutions (PHIs). This does not apply to individuals who
breach travel advisories. SCs/ PRs/ LTPHs who travel overseas from 27
Mar 2020 onwards are required to pay for their own inpatient medical
bills in full should they have onset of symptoms within 14 days of
returning to Singapore. They will also not be able to claim from
MediShield Life or Integrated Shield Plans in public and private
hospitals, should they require COVID-19 inpatient care.
6.     The Government is gradually permitting essential travel through
various travel arrangements. From 7 August 2020, all outbound SCs/ PRs/
LTPHs travellers who travel abroad under permitted travel arrangements
will be able to tap on regular healthcare financing arrangements for
their inpatient medical bills, should they have onset of symptoms within
14 days of their return to Singapore and require hospital admission for
suspected COVID-19 infection. In other words, SCs/PRs will be eligible
for Government subsidies and MediShield Life/ Integrated Shield Plans
coverage, and will be required to pay any remaining co-payment. LTPHs
may tap on their prevailing financing arrangements (e.g. foreign worker
insurance), where applicable.
7.     The permitted travel arrangements to which the above applies
include Green/ Fast Lanes which are currently in place, as well as any
permitted travel arrangement that may be implemented in the future.
8.     SCs/ PRs/ LTPHs who are not under permitted travel arrangements
and travel in breach of the travel advisories will continue to pay for
their COVID-19 inpatient medical bills in full with no access to
subsidies and MediShield Life/ Integrated Shield Plan coverage.
9.   Short-Term Pass Holders entering Singapore under permitted travel
arrangements will remain responsible for their medical bills, should
they test positive for COVID-19.
GRADUAL RESUMPTION OF ACTIVITIES; MOST EVENTS TO REMAIN VIRTUAL
10.      On 4 August 2020, we launched a pilot for wedding receptions of
up to 50 persons. The list of places where wedding receptions can be
held is being gradually expanded to include more venues. For now,
wedding receptions are allowed only in controlled venues where safe
management measures can be better implemented and enforced, such as
restaurants, hotels, and public and private function rooms. For example,
selected indoor function spaces managed by NParks have been available
for wedding receptions since 4 August 2020 while function rooms and
multi-purpose halls at community centres/clubs will be available from 31
August 2020.
11.     In order to reduce our total risk exposure, most other events
should continue to remain virtual for now. These include large
gatherings and festivities surrounding national and community occasions
such as National Day (e.g. community concerts and observance ceremonies)
and Seventh Lunar Month events (e.g. live auctions, getai
performances).
12.       Seventh Lunar Month prayers and post-funeral religious rites
conducted by religious organisations with a good track record of
implementing safe management measures, or by religious workers endorsed
by these religious organisations, will be allowed to take place in
places of worship and some external venues such as HDB common areas. The
Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth will release details shortly.
TAKING STEADY STEPS TOWARDS THE NEW NORMAL
13.       The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to monitor the
situation closely as we take steady steps towards a new normal. Social
responsibility remains key, and we will need to work and innovate
together so that we can achieve a new COVID-19 normal where we can
resume most activities and events safely.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 AUGUST 2020
