Guidance for Use of Masks and Face Shields



GUIDANCE FOR USE OF MASKS AND FACE SHIELDS


Published Date: 01 Jun 2020

                As more activities and services resume after the circuit
breaker lifts from 2 June 2020, the use of masks will continue to be
mandatory when people go outside their homes. The use of masks that
closely and completely cover the nose and mouth will be required as a
default. With effect from 2 June, face shields will be treated
differently from masks, and will be allowed only for specific exempt
groups or settings.
2.             COVID-19 is spread predominantly through droplets. The
design of face shields typically leaves a gap between the face shield
and the face. Masks that are worn closely and completely over the nose
and mouth do not have such gaps. During the circuit breaker, face
shields were allowed to be worn, in place of masks. But with the
re-opening of our economy and society, we can expect more activities and
close contact amongst people, including on public transport. So masks
will now be required as the default.
3.             In some situations, the wearing of masks may not be
practical. In such situations, face shields may be worn. The face
shields must be worn properly so that it covers the entire face, from
the forehead to below the chin, wrapping around the sides of the face.
The groups which can wear face shields are as follows:

-   Children twelve years and below, who may have difficulty wearing and
    keeping face masks on for a prolonged period of time;
-   Persons who have health conditions that may result in breathing or
    other medical difficulties when a mask is worn for a prolonged
    period of time; and
-   Persons who are speaking to a group in a classroom or lecture-style
    setting, where they largely remain at the spot from which they are
    speaking, and are able to maintain a safe distance away from any
    other persons.



4.             We currently exempt persons doing television broadcasts
from having to wear face masks or face shields. We will continue with
this exemption, provided such activities are done in a safe and
controlled environment, e.g. safe distancing is observed vis-à-vis other
persons, and safe management practices are followed throughout the
recording or filming process.
5.             In certain settings, face shields may be worn on top of a
mask to provide additional protection. For example, wearing a shield can
help to protect one’s eyes from droplets that may contain virus
particles, and can also prevent the mask from getting wet. It may also
help to stop people from adjusting their masks or touching their faces.
6.             The general public are still advised to stay at home and
avoid going out where possible. However, for those who need to go out,
the wearing of masks, in combination with other preventive measures such
as hand hygiene and safe distancing, remain important to help reduce and
prevent the spread of COVID-19. We will continue to exercise flexibility
in enforcement for groups that may have difficulties wearing a face mask
or shield, including children with special needs and young children aged
two and above. In particular, mask-wearing is not recommended for young
children below the age of two for safety reasons.
7.             As more activities and services gradually resume, we urge
everyone to play their part by wearing masks, observing good personal
hygiene, and adhering to safe distancing and safe management measures.
