Expanded Covid-19 Testing to Specific Community Groups and Updated
Guidance On Use of Masks



EXPANDED COVID-19 TESTING TO SPECIFIC COMMUNITY GROUPS AND UPDATED GUIDANCE ON USE OF MASKS


Published Date: 29 Aug 2020

                  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will expand the COVID-19
testing regime to identified community groups in the upcoming weeks.
These tests will be offered to these groups to provide a better picture
of population prevalence and facilitate the early containment of any
cryptic cases in the community.
2.               The Taskforce also recommends that makeshift face
coverings such as bandanas, scarves, and neck gaiters should not be
used.
EXPANDED COVID-19 TESTING TO SPECIFIC COMMUNITY GROUPS
3.               The Ministry of Health (MOH) regularly reviews our
testing strategies to enhance and step up our surveillance regime for
the community. Beyond the comprehensive surveillance testing on
individuals above the age of 12 diagnosed with acute respiratory
infections (ARI), the Government has activated numerous testing
operations for targeted groups such as preschool teachers and staff and
residents of residential homes serving the elderly[1].
4.               Although the number of community cases remains low and
stable today, we must not let our guard down. As we gradually reopen our
economy and resume social activities, we will be testing more
extensively in the community. MOH, together with other government
agencies, will be progressively reaching out to identified community
groups to offer COVID-19 testing on a one-time basis. These testing
operations aim to provide a better picture of population prevalence.
5.               For a start, we have plans to provide testing to
community groups such as taxi and Private Hire Car (PHC) drivers, food
delivery personnel, key vendors servicing foreign worker dormitories, as
well as stallholders at hawker centres, markets and similar F&B
establishments such as coffeeshops. While there has been no local
evidence that these community groups are of higher risks of getting
infected, MOH will be offering tests to them given the nature of their
working environment, such as the high frequency of interactions with
members of public.
6.               We strongly encourage individuals in the identified
community groups to come forward and utilise the tests offered. The
costs of the tests will be fully borne by the government.
Updated Guidance on Use of Masks
7.               There have been recent queries on the efficacy of
makeshift coverings such as bandanas, scarves, and neck gaiters in
preventing disease transmission. As these makeshift coverings may not
have a good fit around the person’s nose and mouth and are made from
materials that are not specific for disease prevention, they may not
perform as well as purpose-built masks.
8.               To ensure transmission rates in the community are kept
low, it is critical for every member of public to put on masks that are
designed or made specifically to prevent disease transmission. A mask
should be worn such that it closely and completely covers the wearer’s
nose and mouth, without leaving a gap between the mask and the face.
Therefore, face coverings such as neck gaiters, bandanas, scarves, or
handkerchiefs should not be used.
PLAYING OUR PART IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
9.               Everyone has a role to play to ensure the safe
resumption of social and economic activities. To be socially
responsible, those who are unwell, including those showing early/mild
symptoms of fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose and loss of smell,
should seek medical attention immediately and stay at home to prevent
the spread of illness to others. We strongly urge everyone to do their
part by observing safe distancing and practicing good personal hygiene
to reduce the risk of transmission. Together, we can continue in our
fight against COVID-19 to protect ourselves, our loved ones and our
community.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 AUGUST 2020
