Joint Statement by Moh and Mnd Relating to Development of Community Care
Facilities by Surbana Jurong Pte Ltd



JOINT STATEMENT BY MOH AND MND RELATING TO DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNITY CARE FACILITIES BY SURBANA JURONG PTE LTD


Published Date: 20 May 2020

                Some allegations have been made alleging profiteering
and corruption in relation to the development of the community care
facility (CCF) by Surbana Jurong Pte Ltd (SJ) at the Singapore EXPO
Convention and Exhibition Centre at Changi (Expo). These allegations are
false and malicious.
2.             The Government worked out a comprehensive strategy to
care for COVID-19 patients at different stages of their infection, and
based on their need for different types of treatment. A small number
needed hospital care. The majority needed accommodation where they can
be isolated, until their infectious stage has passed. These were
designated CCF. Those admitted to CCFs are persons with mild or no
symptoms, or are recovering patients who have been discharged from
hospital.
3.             There were various other types of facilities that were
also prepared for other needs, for example, like additional Government
Quarantine Facilities (GQFs) and Community Recovery Facilities (CRFs)
(for those released from hospital), as well as other types of
facilities. All these facilities, including CCFs, had to be built and
prepared quickly, in a matter of days.
4.             The Government thus worked closely with Temasek, at short
notice. Temasek was approached because it had the necessary resources,
to be marshalled, at short notice, through its subsidiaries. Temasek
agreed to assist, and also agreed that the work done by Temasek and its
linked companies, would be done at cost recovery basis , and in some
cases, below cost. There will be no profit made by Temasek and
its linked companies for the work done. The Temasek linked companies
agreed with these arrangements.
5.             Temasek identified the Singapore EXPO as suitable venue
for CCF. Temasek asked SJ to convert the EXPO into Singapore’s first
large-scale CCF.
6.             For the development of the CCF at the Singapore EXPO
(which has 8,000 beds), Temasek also asked other companies, including
PSA International (which was the overall project co-ordinator),
Singapore Technologies Engineering and Sheares Healthcare to help.
External vendors such as Parkway Pantai, Resorts World Sentosa and
Certis Cisco also played a crucial role in the successful development of
the Singapore EXPO CCF.
7.             The Ministry of Health (MOH) worked with Temasek and the
other entities on the healthcare requirements and needs for the CCF
site. Once these were confirmed, the Ministry of National Development
(MND) liaised with the entities on the payments for the development of
the Singapore EXPO CCF. This is because MND has also been liaising with
other parties to pay for the provision of other facilities, like the
dedicated Stay-Home Notice (SHN) facilities.
8.             For all the work done by Temasek, it did not charge any
management fees, and has only invoiced MND for expenses paid to third
parties. Temasek also confirmed that its linked companies, including SJ
will only charge for direct expenditure, at cost. Some aspects were
charged at below normal cost. For example, Temasek told the Government
that SingEx Venues Pte Ltd, which manages the Singapore EXPO, will not
charge the full capex cost, since the EXPO was not being used for normal
business anyway.
9.             The Ministry of Manpower and the Minister for Manpower
were not involved in the selection of SJ (or any of the parties) to
participate in the development of the Singapore EXPO CCF, and were not
involved in the process of managing the costs of the project.
10.             SJ worked with the other partners to complete the
development of the Singapore EXPO CCF in a very short time. It was able
to leverage its sourcing processes to obtain construction and other
needed materials on an urgent basis. Despite the tight timelines and
extensive work that was required, SJ provided its expertise to develop
the Singapore EXPO CCF at cost, without any profit or management fee.
11.             The Government accepts that legitimate questions can be
raised about the spending, and is fully prepared to explain why and how
money was spent. However the Government will respond firmly and
appropriately to any scurrilous allegation of corruption.
12.             Many parties have stepped forward to help in the fight
against COVID-19. These include the Temasek companies, private sector
companies, as well as thousands of Singaporeans. We are grateful to all
who have worked hard and around the clock to set up the Singapore EXPO
CCF under extraordinary circumstances. This is a testament to the
whole-of-society effort that has made it possible for us to combat and
manage the COVID-19 virus. We are not done with this battle, but these
efforts have contributed much to our ability to mount a strong and
effective effort to protect Singaporeans, and put us on a strong footing
to face the challenges ahead.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
20 MAY 2020
