Joint Statement by MOH, MPA and STB: Precautionary Measures taken for
Cruise Ship’s Scheduled Call at Singapore



JOINT STATEMENT BY MOH, MPA AND STB: PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TAKEN FOR CRUISE SHIP’S SCHEDULED CALL AT SINGAPORE


Published Date: 09 Mar 2020

          The Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA) and
Singapore Tourism Board (STB) confirm that the scheduled call by the
Singapore-based Costa Fortuna at Singapore is one of the scheduled calls
made by cruise ships at our terminals.
2.        Over the past two weeks, Singapore has handled more than 10
scheduled calls by cruise ships and disembarked more than 5,000
passengers.
3.       Costa Fortuna began its journey from Singapore as a
home-ported ship and is returning as scheduled on 10 March 2020. Like
all other cruise ships departing from Singapore’s cruise terminals,
Costa Fortuna was disinfected prior to its departure from Singapore. All
its passengers also completed pre-embarkation checks based on prevailing
policies for travel history and temperature screening as required by the
cruise line and the terminal operator prior to boarding. This is its
16th call since December 2019.
4.        Costa Fortuna has not picked up any new passengers since it
left Singapore on 3 March 2020[1] .
5.        After Costa Fortuna berths, doctors, licensed by the Ministry
of Health, will conduct enhanced, one-on-one checks on passengers who
have recent travel history to northern Italy within the last 14 days.
Those who exhibit fever and/or other symptoms of respiratory illness
will be conveyed directly to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases. Those without symptoms will be conveyed directly to the
airport for their onward flights.
6.        All remaining passengers entering Singapore will also undergo
temperature screening as a precautionary measure. Those who exhibit
fever and/or other symptoms of respiratory illness will be required to
undergo a COVID-19 swab test. Passengers who are identified for COVID-19
swab testing but refuse to do so will not be allowed entry into
Singapore.
______
[1] From 4 March 2020, 2359 hours, all new visitors with recent travel
history to Iran, northern Italy or the Republic of Korea within the last
14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit through
Singapore.
Issued by:
Ministry of Health
Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
Singapore Tourism Board
