180 More Cases Discharged, 513 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



180 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 513 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 25 Jul 2020

           As of 25 July 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 513 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 6 (2 Permanent Residents, 4 Dependant’s Pass holders)

Amongst the 6 imported cases, 2 (Cases 49477 and 49479) are Permanent
Residents who returned to Singapore from India on 12 July, and from the
UK on 10 July. The remaining cases are Dependant’s Pass holders who
arrived from India between 11 July and 13 July. All of them had been
placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and
had been tested while serving their SHN.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2 (2 Work Permit holders)

Of the 2 cases in the community, 1 was picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and 1 had already been placed on
quarantine earlier. Both are asymptomatic, and were detected through our
proactive testing.

1 of the community cases today is linked to a previous case. Case 49715
had been identified as a contact of a previously confirmed case, and had
been placed on quarantine earlier. He was tested during quarantine to
determine his status.

The other community case is currently unlinked. Case 49478 was detected
from our proactive screening of workers in essential services who are
living outside the dormitories, even though he is asymptomatic.

Epidemiological investigations of the unlinked case are in progress. In
the meantime, all the identified close contacts have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for his household contacts to determine if he
could have been infected by them.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 9 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 7 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 5 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 4 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 505

We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

The Inter-agency Taskforce is on track to clear all the dormitories by
the beginning of August 2020, with the exception of 17 standalone blocks
in 8 Purpose Built Dormitories, which serve as quarantine facilities for
28,000 workers still serving out their isolation period. This last batch
of workers come from dormitories with a relatively high prevalence of
COVID-19, and will be subject to a final test before they complete their
isolation periods. We therefore expect the daily case counts to be high
for the coming two weeks, before tapering down thereafter

2.       Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.       Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.      The Inter-Agency Task Force has been systematically and
progressively clearing dormitories through aggressive testing of migrant
workers residing in dormitories. The following dormitories have been
cleared, and now house only recovered individuals and those who have
recently tested negative for COVID-19 infection. As such, the clusters
have now been closed.

-   20 Kranji Road;

-   Potong Pasir Avenue 1;

-   63 Senoko Drive;

-   5 Sungei Kadut Avenue;

-   59 Sungei Kadut Loop;

-   10 Tagore Drive;

-   212 Tagore Lane;

-   16 Tech Park Crescent;

-   23 Tech Park Crescent;

-   50 Tech Park Crescent; and

-   29 Tuas View Walk 2.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.         In the past week (18 July to 24 July), MOH has uncovered
links for 2 previously unlinked cases in the community.
6.        Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.          180 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 45,352 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.
8.             There are currently 148 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 4,361 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
