End of Circuit Breaker Phased Approach to Resuming Healthcare Services



END OF CIRCUIT BREAKER PHASED APPROACH TO RESUMING HEALTHCARE SERVICES


Published Date: 22 May 2020

                 The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has assessed the situation
and decided to exit the Circuit Breaker when it ends on 1 June 2020. In
tandem with the gradual opening of the economy, healthcare services
which were deferred will also resume in a controlled and gradual manner.
2.             Even as we resume more healthcare services, managing the
current outbreak situation and preventing new large clusters from
forming remain our priority.
PHASE ONE (“SAFE RE-OPENING”)
3.             Over the next few weeks, more healthcare services will
resume in a gradual and controlled manner to minimise crowding. This
carefully considers the need to set aside sufficient capacity, critical
resources and manpower in our healthcare institutions to cover ongoing
COVID-19 operations. Appropriate safe distancing and precautionary
measures remain necessary.
4.             Healthcare providers will triage and prioritise the
resumption of healthcare services based on medical necessity, where
patients with more urgent medical needs will be attended to first.
Services for patients who are well, or whose conditions are stable and
whose treatment can continue to be safely deferred will resume in a
later phase. Similarly, services which alter the appearance but do not
cure or ameliorate disease or illness (e.g. Botox, fillers, threadlifts)
will continue to be deferred.
5.             In Phase One, i.e. from 2 June 2020, patients may expect
the following services to resume:
   a.   HOSPITAL-BASED CARE.Only specialist outpatient services, medical
procedures and allied health services for patients with higher needs
will resume. These include care that has been deferred for some months
and cannot be deferred further without affecting clinical outcome. Some
examples include surgeries for visually significant or advanced
cataracts, hearing implants in children, joint surgeries for patients
with severe impairment, all in-vitro fertilisation services,
surveillance services including scopes for high-risk groups, and
diabetic foot screening. Each patient will be assessed based on his
individual circumstance.

   b.   PRIMARY, PREVENTIVE AND DENTAL CARE. Chronic disease management,
including the provision of ancillary services, will resume for patients,
prioritised by healthcare providers based on medical necessity and
available capacity. Preventive health services, such as vaccinations for
flu, pneumococcal and other recommended adult vaccinations, and
pre-enlistment screening will recommence. Ongoing dental procedures
including scaling and polishing, fillings, crowns, dentures and
orthodontic treatment can resume, with appropriate precautions.
   c.   COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICES. Home-based visits will resume for
existing clients to serve those who need the services, with safe
distancing measures in place. These include clients whose services have
been deferred during the circuit breaker period. Services for new
clients will be prioritised to those with urgent needs.
   d.   TRADITIONAL CHINESE MEDICINE AND OTHER TRADITIONAL AND
COMPLEMENTARY SERVICES. TCM needle acupuncture for all conditions will
resume. Other Traditional and Complementary Services such as Ayurvedic,
chiropractic and osteopathic treatments for the management of medical
conditions and relief of symptoms may resume with appropriate
precautions.
6.             Please see Annex A for examples of essential services
that continue to be provided even during the circuit breaker period, and
Annex B for examples of services that have gradually resumed since 19
May 2020, with further services to be resumed from Phase One (i.e. 2 Jun
2020).
7.             In addition, as there is still a need to reduce the risk
of community transmissions, physical visits should be minimised whenever
possible, with teleconsultation and medication delivery being the
preferred mode of review. These consultations, including collection of
medications for continual management of existing medical conditions,
should be done on an appointment basis as far as possible, and subject
to the ability to maintain safe care and safe distancing on the
premises.
8.             To ensure the safety of staff and patients in our
healthcare establishments, all staff will continue to adhere to
necessary precautions including the wearing of masks, maintaining good
personal hygiene and ensuring regular cleaning of activity equipment and
shared spaces. Patients and caregivers must also do their part by
wearing a mask at all times and maintaining good personal hygiene when
seeking treatment.
9.             In Phase One, we will also allow visitors from the same
or one other household to visit loved ones who have been hospitalised.
However, to protect our patients who are still vulnerable, we will allow
a maximum of five such visitors to pre-register with the hospital, and
only one person will be allowed to visit at a time. Hospitals may also
introduce further measures to space out visitations and avoid crowding.
10.             Some of these measures may be adjusted further to
reduce risk of infection if necessary. The Ministry of Health (MOH) will
continue to reach out to healthcare professionals to share our plans.
PHASES TWO AND THREE
11.             The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will monitor the daily
infection rates. If the community transmission rates remain low and
stable over the subsequent few weeks, and the dormitory situation
remains under control, we may then progress to Phase Two (“Safe
Transition”), with the gradual resumption of more activities.
12.             In the early part of Phase Two, we expect most
healthcare services to resume, with services for medically necessary
treatments prioritised. This would still be subject to the need to
minimise appointments for physical consultations unless clinically
needed, based on the ability to maintain safe distancing. These include
recommended chronic disease and cancer screening under the Screen For
Life programme, statutory medical examinations, pre-employment medical
screening, and selected community based services delivered on a
one-to-one basis. Group activities such as senior activities, community
health screening and other forms of congregation will resume in later
phases.
13.             We will also consider further easing the visitor
restrictions, to allow more family members and friends to visit loved
ones admitted to hospitals. This will still be subject to overall
visitor caps.


