1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 26 Nov 2020

1.      As of 26 November 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there is 1 new case of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The case is in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 4 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 4 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 1 was symptomatic.
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

1



0

1



1

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

4



4

0



0

4

TOTAL

5













2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
low, with a total of 1 case in the past week. We will continue to
closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
CASE DETAILS
A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1
There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
58401 is a Singaporean who works as a Service Engineer at Master Systems
Marine Pte Ltd. His job entails going onboard vessels docked at Marina
South Pier and West Coast Pier for servicing and maintenance of ships'
navigational systems. He typically worked alone, and had no interaction
with vessel crew except for a supervising crew member. On days when he
was not working onboard vessels, he had remained at his office located
at Vertex Building Tower B (33 Ubi Avenue 3). He reported that he wore a
surgical mask during his work onboard the vessels and at the office, and
that safe distancing and safe management measures were adhered to.
The case developed a fever and sore throat on 23 November night, and
sought medical treatment at a General Practitioner clinic the next day,
where he was tested for COVID-19 under our enhanced community testing
regime. He was conveyed in an ambulance to the National Centre for
Infectious Diseases the following day, when his test came back positive
for COVID-19 infection. His serological test has come back negative,
indicating that this is a fresh infection.
Epidemiological investigations are in progress. It was revealed that on
21 November, he had dinner with 12 family members at Seoul Garden at
Tampines Mall. They had occupied 3 tables and there was mingling between
the groups. Amongst those present at the dinner was his 2 year-old
niece, who had earlier been issued a 5-day medical certificate (from 20
November to 24 November) for runny nose. She has since been tested
negative for COVID-19 infection. Investigations are ongoing to assess if
there had been any breach of the relevant safe management measures.
In the meantime, all his identified close contacts (including his family
members at the dinner) have been isolated and placed on quarantine and
will be tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that
we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests
on his household and family contacts to determine if he could have been
infected by them.
We urge everyone to continue to exercise social responsibility, and to
cooperate with the prevailing measures. This is yet another reminder
that the virus has not been eradicated and that new cases and clusters
can easily emerge in our community, if we let our guard down.
B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0
There are no cases residing in dormitories today.
C)  IMPORTED CASES: 4
Amongst the 4 imported cases, 2 (Cases 58402 and 58403) are Dependant's
Pass holders who arrived from Pakistan. The remaining 2 cases are
currently employed in Singapore. Case 58400 is a Work Permit holder who
arrived from Malaysia and Case 58404 is a Work Pass holder who arrived
from Nepal. They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in
Singapore and were tested while serving SHN.
3.  Please refer to the Annexes and MOH's daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
4.  13 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 58,104 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
5.  There are currently 43 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 20 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 28 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

