MOH Steps Up Precautionary Measures In Response to Increase In Cases of
Novel Coronavirus Pneumonia In Wuhan



MOH STEPS UP PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO INCREASE IN CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS PNEUMONIA IN WUHAN


Published Date: 20 Jan 2020

1.  In response to the increase in cases of novel coronavirus pneumonia
    in Wuhan and exported cases to other cities and countries, as well
    as the anticipated increase in travel volume in the lead up to the
    Chinese New Year holidays, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will expand
    temperature screening at Changi Airport and issue Health Advisory
    Notices for all inbound travellers on flights arriving from China
    from 22 January 2020.



2.  Individuals with pneumonia and travel history to Wuhan within 14
    days before onset of symptoms will be isolated in hospital as a
    precautionary measure to prevent transmission, and investigated.



3.  This is in addition to the other precautionary measures that MOH has
    put in place since the start of January 2020. From the evening of 3
    January, temperature screening has been implemented at Changi
    airport for inbound travellers arriving on flights from Wuhan, and
    suspect cases have been referred to hospitals for further
    assessment. Health Advisory Posters have also been installed at
    Changi Airport to advise all travellers on the precautionary
    measures to take when travelling to or arriving from Wuhan.



4.  In addition, MOH and the National Centre for Infectious Diseases
    (NCID) have developed a joint clinical guidance on the novel
    coronavirus which advises on the management of suspect cases. The
    guidance has been disseminated to Emergency Department and
    Infectious Diseases physicians, and public sector hospital
    laboratories. MOH has also issued a reminder on 20 January to
    hospitals and General Practitioners to be vigilant for cases with
    pneumonia who have recently travelled to Wuhan.



5.  To date, there have been no confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus
    reported in Singapore. However, given that Singapore is a travel
    hub, we expect to see more suspect cases, and cannot rule out the
    possibility of imported cases. Once a case is confirmed, contact
    tracing will be initiated, and we will implement strict isolation,
    quarantine, and infection control and prevention measures to prevent
    further transmission.



    HEALTH ADVISORY



6.  MOH urges the public to remain vigilant and to adopt good personal
    hygiene practices. All travellers to Wuhan should monitor their
    health closely and seek medical attention promptly if they feel
    unwell, and also inform their doctor of their travel history.



7.  Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following
    precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    runny nose;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.


