MOH Issues Public Health Travel Advisory In Response to Cases of Novel
Coronavirus In China



MOH ISSUES PUBLIC HEALTH TRAVEL ADVISORY IN RESPONSE TO CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS IN CHINA


Published Date: 22 Jan 2020

­­

In view of the novel coronavirus situation in Wuhan and other parts of
China, the Ministry of Health (MOH) advises travellers to avoid
non-essential travel to Wuhan. MOH also reminds the public to continue
to exercise caution and attention to personal hygiene when travelling to
the rest of China.

 

2.         Travellers should adopt the following precautions at all
times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid crowded places and close contact with people who are unwell or
    showing symptoms of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    runny nose;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

3.         All travellers should monitor their health closely for 2
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell, and also inform their doctor of their travel history.
If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough, runny nose),
they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead of the visit.

 

4.         Given the evolving situation and ongoing investigations in
China, Singapore residents who need to travel to the affected areas are
advised to regularly check MOH’s website (www.moh.gov.sg) for updates.
Travellers to China are also advised to stay vigilant, monitor
developments and heed the advice of the local Chinese authorities while
in China.

 

5.         MOH has put in place precautionary measures to reduce the
risk of importation of the virus to Singapore. The definition of suspect
cases from 22 January 2020 include persons with:

 

(i) pneumonia and travel history to China within 14 days before onset of
symptoms; or

(ii) acute respiratory infection who had been to any hospital in China,
within 14 days before onset of symptoms.

 

These cases will be isolated in hospital as a precautionary measure to
prevent transmission.

 

6.         From 22 January 2020, temperature screening at Changi Airport
has also been expanded to all inbound travellers on flights arriving
from China, and suspect cases meeting the expanded definition above will
be referred to hospitals for further assessment. Health Advisory Notices
are issued to all travellers arriving at Changi Airport from China, and
health advisory posters are displayed at land and sea checkpoints.

 

7.         MOH has also reminded doctors and healthcare workers to be
vigilant, and maintain strict infection control and prevention measures.

 

8.         To date, there have been no confirmed cases of the novel
coronavirus reported in Singapore. However, given the high volume of
international travel to Singapore, we expect to see more suspect cases,
and  imported cases. Once a case is confirmed, contact tracing will be
initiated, and we will implement strict isolation, quarantine, and
infection control and prevention measures to prevent further
transmission.


