Easing Restrictions On Key Life Events



EASING RESTRICTIONS ON KEY LIFE EVENTS


Published Date: 30 Jul 2020

1. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will be easing restrictions on two key
life events – namely weddings and wakes/ funerals – as part of a
careful, calibrated resumption of activities in Phase Two.
2. Singapore is six weeks into Phase Two of re-opening. Since Phase Two,
most activities have resumed, subject to strict safe management measures
being put in place. The number of community cases has remained low with
the continued vigilance of businesses and the public over the past few
weeks. However the likelihood of a second wave remains if we let down
our guard.
3. Thus far, we have taken a cautious approach for activities or
settings where large numbers of persons are likely to come into close
contact, often in enclosed spaces, and for prolonged periods of time.
Nevertheless, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce recognises the need for
particularly important activities and key life events to continue during
this period. We have therefore reviewed our measures to see how these
can be carried out safely.
MARRIAGE SOLEMNISATIONS AND RECEPTIONS
4. Since the beginning of Phase Two, marriage solemnizations have been
allowed to take place with up to 20 persons (excluding the Solemniser),
subject to the venue’s capacity limit based on safe management
principles. From 4 August 2020, this will be expanded to 50 persons
(including the couple, excluding the Solemniser and vendors) for the
entire event, subject to the venue’s capacity limit based on safe
management principles. This will apply to venues such as places of
worship, HDB common areas and other external venues. Solemnisations at
home, the Registry of Civil and Muslim Marriages (ROM/M) Building, and
designated areas at the National Museum of Singapore operated by ROM
will continue to take place with up to 10 persons (including the couple,
excluding the Solemniser and vendors), as these venues tend to be
smaller.
5. In addition, we will launch a pilot where each wedding couple will
also be allowed to hold ONE wedding reception (including food and
drinks), with up to 50 attendees (including the couple) for the entire
duration of the event, in venues that are permitted to serve food and
drinks (e.g. restaurants, hotels), and subject to their capacity limit
based on safe management principles. Prevailing safe management measures
must also be strictly adhered to.
6. All other wedding-related activities including customary rites and
ceremonies, would have to adhere to prevailing gathering size limits
e.g. up to 5 visitors to each household, or up to 5 persons in a group
outside the home.
7. Venue operators and owners (e.g. restaurants, hotels) holding these
events must ensure that the physical set-up and event arrangements are
in accordance with the above groupings and other safe management
measures. Please refer to Annex A for the types of venues where marriage
solemnizations and receptions may be held, and
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/safemanagement/sector for the full set
of safe management measures which will need to be put in place (a
summary of key measures can be found in Annex B).
8. Through this pilot, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce will assess the
ability of the organisers and venue owners to ensure that the necessary
safe management measures are put in place and adhered to. This will then
inform the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on subsequent reviews of the
parameters for such events. As these receptions remain of higher risk,
we seek couples’ understanding and compliance with these guidelines, to
keep their family members and friends safe, so that all present can look
back on the event with happy memories. We also seek Singaporeans’
understanding that there is still a need to limit our total risk
exposure so that we can keep community transmission low while resuming
key activities.
WAKES AND FUNERALS
9. Since the beginning of Phase Two, for wakes and funerals, up to 20
persons may be present at any one time. We recognise that this is a
particularly emotionally difficult period for the families involved. To
facilitate more family members and friends to pay their last respects,
from 4 August 2020, up to 30 persons may be present at any one time,
subject to the venue’s capacity limit based on safe management
principles. We will continue to review the group size limits and safe
management measures as part of the gradual re-opening.
CHANGING NORMS IN THE NEW COVID-19 NORMAL
10. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to monitor the situation
closely, with the aim of continuing to enable key social and economic
activities to resume gradually and safely. Meanwhile, we must all adjust
our expectations, lifestyles and norms, as we are not going back to the
way things were before COVID-19. Individuals are encouraged to
experiment with innovative approaches for the commemoration of key life
events in the new normal, such as having hybrid virtual-physical events,
so that we can continue to protect our family and loved ones as much as
possible.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
30 JULY 2020
