Update On Rostered Routine Testing Policy for Migrant Workers Recovered
From Covid-19



UPDATE ON ROSTERED ROUTINE TESTING POLICY FOR MIGRANT WORKERS RECOVERED FROM COVID-19


Published Date: 06 Nov 2020

1.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Manpower (MOM),
in consultation with infectious diseases specialists, have reviewed the
latest scientific evidence and found that the vast majority of a cohort
of recovered workers continue to have antibodies, including neutralising
antibodies[1], at day 180 from the onset of illness. This suggests that
these workers are at low risk of developing re-infection. There have
also been no cases of re-infection in Singapore to date.



2.     Based on the latest scientific evidence, MOH and MOM will exempt
all COVID-19 recovered workers[2] from RRT with effect from 4 November
2020. This is in view of the low risk of re-infection, which means the
workers are unlikely to benefit from RRT.  We will continue to review
the scientific evidence, before deciding when is the appropriate
juncture for these workers to be put back on the RRT regime.  In
addition, recovered workers within 180 days of infection (instead of 150
days previously) need not be quarantined if they are identified as close
contacts of COVID-19 cases.



3.     There is no change to the RRT policy for workers who have never
been infected with COVID-19. This approach allows us to focus our
efforts on workers who have never been infected as they are at greater
risk.



4.     However, to maintain vigilance, all recovered workers past 90
days from the onset of illness who present with symptoms suggestive of
acute respiratory illness will continue to be tested for COVID-19 as
part of our multi-layered strategy to manage risk of transmission. This
will allow us to detect any potential re-infections and enable swift and
decisive measures to prevent further spread of COVID-19.



5.     It remains critical to the management of recovered workers for
MOH and MOM to continue to advance our understanding on how the level of
antibodies in recovered workers will change over time. We will closely
monitor all recovered workers with illness onset before 16 April 2020.
They will undergo monitoring tests, which include polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) and serology tests, at regular intervals. This group is
identified as they are amongst the earliest cohort of workers in
Singapore to have recovered from the infection and their antibodies are
likely to be the first to fade. If we detect that their antibodies are
starting to fade, or if there is evidence of re-infection of recovered
workers, we may resume RRT of recovered workers earlier.



6.     MOH and MOM will continue to review the latest scientific
evidence relevant to these measures and revise our policies accordingly.
It remains the shared responsibility of all stakeholders including
dormitory operators, employers and workers to ensure strict compliance
to Safe Living Measures, and to seek care when unwell in our fight
against COVID-19.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Neutralising antibodies (NAbs) are specific antibodies present in
the serum of COVID-19 patients that are responsible for clearing the
viral infection.

[2] This applies to all dormitory dwelling workers and workers in the
Construction, Marine and Process (CMP) sectors regardless of their place
of residence.
