Strong National Push to Stem Spread of Covid-19



STRONG NATIONAL PUSH TO STEM SPREAD OF COVID-19


Published Date: 21 Apr 2020

            The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has directed more steps to be
taken to further reduce transmission of COVID-19. We will close more
work premises to minimise workplace transmissions and to contain the
infection amongst migrant worker clusters. We will also take targeted
action at popular areas in the community, and encourage more to stay
home, to further reduce the risk of community transmission.
UPDATE ON CURRENT TRENDS OF TRANSMISSION
2  We have seen a significant increase in cases relating to
migrant workers, in the past two weeks, driven predominantly by
aggressive testing in migrant worker dormitories. We have deployed
medical and support teams to various dormitories to tend to the
healthcare and daily needs of the migrant workers residing there. Those
who are sick and contracted COVID-19 have been placed under the care of
our healthcare teams. Most are young and many have either no symptoms or
relatively mild symptoms. None need oxygen support or are in the
intensive care unit. Many recover without having to be hospitalised.
3  Since the introduction of the circuit breaker measures, we
are starting to see a moderation in the number of cases in the
community. This has come down from an average of around 40 cases per day
in the first week of the circuit breaker period (i.e. from 7 April to 13
April 2020) to an average of around 30 cases per day in the second week
of the circuit breaker period (i.e. from 14 April to 20 April
2020).[1] The number of cases amongst Singaporeans and Permanent
Residents have also decreased in the same period, to an average of 24
cases per day. Overall COVID-19 related deaths remain low, with 11
deaths to date.
4  However we want to bring the number of cases in the community
down further. There continues to be transmission at workplaces. There is
also an increasing number of unlinked cases in the community. This is
indicative of continued community spread and cases in the community that
have not been detected.
5  We must therefore make a stronger national push to decisively
break the transmissions and further reduce the number of community
cases. We must also be able to detect and contain cases that break out
in the community, to prevent new clusters from forming. Together, we
must make the most out of our circuit breaker period.
CLOSURE OF MORE WORK PREMISES AND MEASURES FOR WORKPLACES
6  On 14 April 2020, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced that
fewer businesses will be permitted to operate during the circuit breaker
period. We aim to reduce the proportion of workers still commuting daily
to work from about 20% today, to around 15%, so as to minimise the
workers’ movements and interactions.
7  The list of activities that will be allowed to continue to
operate will be updated at
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/essentialservices. For businesses that
are customer facing, we will have a tighter definition of what is
allowed under F&B, and either suspend or place restrictions on selected
businesses to further reduce interactions. The affected businesses will
be notified by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Businesses which can
continue operating at their work premises must register their workers
who are required to work on-site. The number of workers permitted to
work on-site will be reduced to the minimum needed.
8  For workplace premises which remain open, employers must put
in place effective measures to avoid transmission of COVID-19 at and
across workplace premises. These include not allowing teams working in
different locations to interact physically with one another,
implementing safe distancing measures at every workplace premise, and
ensuring workers wear masks at the workplaces. All workplaces will also
be required to have a system that logs their workers’ entry into, and
exit from, their workplaces.  Employers can consider using a digital
check-in application called SafeEntry for this purpose. More information
on SafeEntry’s deployment at work premises can be found at
go.gov.sg/safeentry.
9  Enforcement agencies will increase the number of inspections
of workplace premises which remain open, and will take firm action
against non-compliant workplaces. First-time offenders will be issued
composition offers of $1,000, and repeat offenders will face higher
fines or prosecution in court. Businesses will be required to suspend
their operations should a cluster of infection arise among their staff
working on the premises.
TACKLING TRANSMISSIONS IN MIGRANT WORKER CLUSTERS
10  The Taskforce has adopted a three-pronged strategy to contain
and manage the transmissions at dormitories. First, we are actively
containing the spread of the virus in the dormitories. Second, we are
enforcing safe distancing measures in the dormitories to prevent the
intermingling of workers.  Third, we have moved healthy workers in
essential services to other facilities so as to reduce movement in and
out of the dormitories and minimise further cross-infection.
11  To implement this strategy, the Taskforce has deployed Forward
Assurance and Support Teams (FAST teams) to support the dormitories. The
FAST teams assist in setting up medical facilities and triage clinics to
make sure workers get adequate medical attention and care. Workers who
are unwell are encouraged to see the doctor, so that they can be
diagnosed and given appropriate treatment. Those who show signs of being
unwell with respiratory symptoms will be separated as early as possible
from the other dormitory residents. The enhanced medical coverage across
the dormitories will facilitate early identification, prompt contact
tracing, and effective isolation of COVID-19 cases. The FAST teams also
help to ensure that the needs of the migrant workers are met, such as
food, water, and masks, and that their living conditions are
satisfactory and clean.
12  From 2359 hours, 21 April 2020, we will no longer allow daily
movement of workers in and out of all dormitories (i.e. Purpose Built
Dormitories, Factory Converted Dormitories, Construction Temporary
Quarters and Temporary Occupation Licence quarters. Employers must
continue to work with the dormitory operators to ensure the wellbeing of
the workers in the dormitories, including taking care of their food and
other daily needs.
13  Besides the dormitories, we are also dealing with the
situation of migrant workers living in shophouses, private housing and
HDB flats. In light of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases involving
migrant workers in the construction sector, about 180,000 construction
Work Permit and S Pass holders (and their dependents) have been placed
on mandatory SHN from 20 April to 4 May 2020. This is a precautionary
measure to minimise the risk of further community transmission of
COVID-19.
GENERAL POPULATION IS URGED TO TAKE CIRCUIT BREAKER MEASURES SERIOUSLY
14  We urge all in Singapore to stay home and avoid going out
except to purchase food and daily necessities, procure essential
services or for urgent medical needs. Everyone must observe the circuit
breaker measures strictly so that we can quickly break transmissions and
bring down the number of cases in the community.
15  We ask all to observe the spirit of the circuit breaker
measures. Individuals who need to leave their homes should do so _on
their own_, and not in groups or as a household. These trips are not
meant to be family outings. Likewise, if there is a need to exercise
outside, we urge everyone to do so alone and in their immediate
neighbourhoods, rather than travel unnecessarily to other parts of
Singapore.
16  We want to minimise the number of people out and about, to
reduce the chances of community transmission. We understand that some
members of the public will need to be accompanied by a caregiver, for
example, frail seniors, the disabled, and young children. We encourage
everyone to adhere to the spirit of the guidelines to minimise movement,
and complete their tasks and return to their homes quickly.
17  There are some local areas that are susceptible to crowding at
certain times, and where it is difficult to uphold safe distancing
measures. The site owners may introduce access restrictions, and we ask
that members of the public comply with them. In particular, at four
popular wet markets (Geylang Serai Market; Blk 505, Jurong West St 52;
Blk 20/21, Marsiling Lane; and Blk 104/105, Yishun Ring Road), entry
will be permitted only on alternate dates, depending on the last digit
of the individuals’ NRIC/FIN. Individuals with even/odd last digits in
their NRIC/FIN will be allowed entry only on even/odd dates of the month
respectively. This will help spread out the crowd over the week, and
reduce the crowding and long queues seen at these popular markets,
especially on weekends. Other wet markets, as well as supermarkets,
which experience crowding, may also introduce similar access
restrictions. The list of hotspot areas will be updated at
https://www.nea.gov.sg/our-services/hawker-management/announcements.
EXTENSION OF CIRCUIT BREAKER PERIOD
18  These tighter measures will be in place minimally for a
two-week period from 21 April 2020 until 4 May 2020 (inclusive). In view
of the current situation, the Taskforce will also extend the circuit
breaker period by another 4 weeks until 1 June 2020 (inclusive).  We
will continue to monitor the situation closely, and may be able to
gradually ease some of the measures if there is a significant decline in
our local transmission numbers.
19  The Government will provide the same level of support to our
workers and businesses, even as we extend the circuit breaker period.
Please refer to the Ministry of Finance’s media release for details.
20  To fight COVID-19 successfully, all of us must play our part.
Stay home; minimise the time spent outside; and strictly observe safe
distancing measures. The Government is doing everything we can on
multiple fronts to keep Singaporeans as well as our migrant workers
safe. Please work with us.



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] These cases comprise all Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and
Pass holders (excluding work permit holders).
