269 More Cases Discharged, 50 Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



269 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 50 CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 22 Aug 2020

1.     As of 22 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 50 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:

a.  IMPORTED CASES: 5 (1 Singaporean, 1 Work Permit holder, 2
    Dependant’s Pass holders, 1 Student’s Pass holder)



    Amongst the 5 imported cases, 1 (Case 56322) is a Singaporean who
    returned to Singapore from Iran on 10 August. Another 2 (Cases 56319
    and 56330) are Dependant’s Pass holders who arrived from India and
    the Netherlands on 10 August. Another case (Case 56329) is a Work
    Permit holder currently employed in Singapore who arrived from the
    Philippines on 9 August. The remaining case (Case 56308) is a
    Student’s Pass holder who arrived from India on 8 August.

    All the cases had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
    arrival in Singapore, and were serving their SHN at dedicated
    facilities. They had been tested while serving their SHN.

b.  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2 (2 Singaporeans)



    Both cases in the community are currently unlinked. Case 56320 had
    been tested after being admitted to a hospital for another medical
    condition. Case 56323 was detected under our enhanced community
    testing to test all individuals aged 13 and above who are diagnosed
    with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first presentation to a
    doctor. This allows us to identify infected individuals early and to
    quickly contain further spread.

    Epidemiological investigations of the cases are in progress. In the
    meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
    isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start
    and end of their quarantine period so that we can detect
    asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for their
    household contacts to determine if these cases could have been
    infected by them.

    Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
    stable at an average of 2 cases per day in the past 2 weeks. The
    number of unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable
    at an average of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will
    continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
    detected through our surveillance programme.

c.  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 43

The Inter-agency Taskforce has completed the testing of all workers in
the dormitories. There are currently about 13,700 workers who are still
serving out their quarantine period. These workers will be tested when
their quarantine ends, and we expect the case counts to remain high in
the coming days, before tapering down thereafter.



2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 94% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.

4.     MOH has completed our screening and testing of all staff in the
public bus industry who work at depots and interchanges. This is a
precautionary measure after we detected some cases at Bukit Panjang
Integrated Transport Hub. In all, more than 14,800 staff and close
contacts of the cases had been tested using the polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) test between 23 July and 15 August and all have tested
negative, except 10 which have been announced earlier.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     269 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 53,920 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 81 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 2,238 are isolated and cared for at community facilities.
These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still
test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from complications due
to COVID-19 infection.

