Cogx Ministerial Virtual Roundtable On Digital Responses to Covid-19 and
Digital Innovation



COGX MINISTERIAL VIRTUAL ROUNDTABLE ON DIGITAL RESPONSES TO COVID-19 AND DIGITAL INNOVATION


Published Date: 10 Jun 2020

1.  Minister for Health Mr Gan Kim Yong and Senior Minister of State,
Ministry of Communications and Information, Dr Janil Puthucheary
attended a ministerial virtual roundtable hosted by UK Secretary of
State for Health and Social Care, the Rt Hon Matt Hancock MP on 9 June
2020.
2.  The roundtable was part of the CogX 2020 Global Leadership Summit
and Festival of AI and Emerging Technologies, held from 8 to 10 June
2020. The summit was a gathering of leaders from industry, government
and academia to address the question “How do we get the next 10 years
right?”.
3.  The roundtable focused on the sharing of national digital responses
to COVID-19, the lessons learned and ideas on getting the next 10 years
right. Attendees included Health Ministers and senior government
officials from England, Estonia, Finland, Japan, Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, Northern Ireland, Norway, Republic of Korea, Scotland,
Singapore, Sweden and United States of America.
4.  The attendees highlighted the role of technology in managing the
pandemic and adjusting to a new normal. The discussion centred on the
use of digital tools and solutions to support key areas such as
telehealth, contact tracing, management of digital health records and
public communications, as well as challenges such as  data protection
and privacy, and the need for tailored digital solutions.
5.  Mr Gan and Dr Janil shared how Singapore has leveraged technology to
support contact tracing and ensure compliance of those under quarantine
to prevent further spread of the disease. Mr Gan also emphasised the
importance of providing timely and accurate information on COVID-19 and
shared how Singapore uses digital platforms to engage and connect with
the public.
6.  Mr Gan encouraged health leaders to continue to embrace technology,
support its development and the exchange of innovative solutions. The
attendees emphasised the need for unity and cooperation and the
importance of learning from one another in the global fight against
COVID-19.
