Two More Confirmed Imported Cases of Novel Coronavirus Infection in
Singapore



TWO MORE CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 01 Feb 2020

          As of 1 February 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed two additional imported cases of 2019 novel coronavirus
(2019-nCoV) infection in Singapore. Sixteen confirmed cases were earlier
announced by MOH.

2.       Both cases have recent travel history to Wuhan. There is
currently no evidence of community spread in Singapore.

ABOUT THE CASES

Case 16

3.         The 16th confirmed case was announced on 31 January. The case
is a 38 year-old male Chinese national who arrived in Singapore from
Wuhan on 22 January. He is currently warded in an isolation room at the
Singapore General Hospital (SGH).

4.         The case reported that he was asymptomatic during his flight
to Singapore. He subsequently developed symptoms on 23 January and
reported that he had stayed at his home at Nathan Road until 29 January,
when he took a taxi to SGH. He was classified as a suspect case and
immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV
infection on 31 January at about 2pm.

Case 17

5.         The 17th case is a 47 year-old female Singapore Citizen who
travelled to Wuhan. She was one of the Singaporeans evacuated from Wuhan
on 30 January, and arrived in Singapore on the same day. She was
asymptomatic when she boarded the flight. Upon arrival at Changi
Airport, she was found to have a fever during medical screening, and was
conveyed to the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). She was
tested positive for 2019-nCoV infection on 31 January at about 11pm. She
is currently warded in an isolation room at NCID.

Case 18

6.           The 18th case is a 31 year-old female Chinese national who
arrived in Singapore from Wuhan on 22 January. She was tested positive
for 2019-nCoV infection on 1 February at about 2pm. She is currently
warded in an isolation room at NCID.

7.           MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and
contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the
cases.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.           The two new cases are stable currently, and we are
continuing to monitor their health. As for the 16 previously announced
cases, none is critically ill. All of them remain in stable condition,
and most are improving.

UPDATE ON SUSPECT CASES

9.           As of 1 February, 12pm, 231 of the suspect cases have
tested negative for 2019-nCoV, and 18 have tested positive (case 18 was
confirmed at about 2pm, 1 February). Test results for the remaining 25
cases are pending.

UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES

10.        Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.

11.           As of 1 February, 12pm, MOH has identified 245 close
contacts. Of the 177 who are still in Singapore, 172 have been contacted
and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact
the remaining five close contacts.

HEALTH ADVISORY
12.         Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.

13.         All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.

14.        Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

15.         MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who
have recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect
cases that will need to be investigated.


