407 More Cases Discharged, 569 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



407 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 569 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 03 Jun 2020

    As of 3 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified an additional 569 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore.
The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 7 (1 Singaporean/Permanent Resident, 3 Work
Pass holders, 3 Work Permit holders)

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing for the Singaporean/Permanent
Resident case, which is currently unlinked.

All 6 Work Pass and Work Permit holders had been identified as contacts
of previously confirmed cases, and had already been placed on quarantine
earlier.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 6 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 4 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 2 per day in the past two weeks. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 562

We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.   Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.

4.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the dormitory
at 1 North Coast Drive for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28
days), the cluster has now been closed.

5.   We had previously informed that of the preschool staff who have
been proactively screened so far, 14 had tested positive using the
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. Of these, 12 were likely to be
past infections, based on epidemiological investigations, including
their positive serological test results [1]. One more serological test
has come back positive today, indicating a likely past infection. In
all, more than 39,000 preschool staff [2] have been tested, and only one
case was likely to be a current infection at the point of screening, as
announced on 29 May.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.   In the past week (27 May to 2 June), MOH has uncovered links for 7
previously unlinked cases.

7.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.     407 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 23,582 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

9.     There are currently 334 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 5 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,465 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 24 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 JUNE 2020

==
[1] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
[2] Includes ECDA’s preschools, MOE kindergartens and pre-school
sections in private education institutes.

