Additional Border Control Measures To Reduce Further Importation of
COVID-19 Cases



ADDITIONAL BORDER CONTROL MEASURES TO REDUCE FURTHER IMPORTATION OF COVID-19 CASES


Published Date: 22 Mar 2020

         In view of the heightened risk of importation of COVID-19 cases
into Singapore, all short-term visitors will now not be allowed to enter
or transit through Singapore. This is also to conserve resources so we
can focus on Singaporeans.
2.      Previously, except for a handful of countries, short-term
visitors from elsewhere were allowed to come into Singapore, save they
were issued a 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival. This meant,
however, that resources were being expended to serve and enforce SHNs on
them, and if they fell ill, to provide them with medical treatment.
Yesterday, there were still 533 short-term visitors arriving in
Singapore.
3.      There has been a further sharp increase in cases globally and
widening spread. To date, there are more than 260,000 COVID-19 cases
across 185 countries, and around 11,200 deaths. In Singapore, almost 80
percent of our new COVID-19 cases over the past [1] three days were
imported, most of them Singapore residents and Long Term Pass holders
returning home from abroad. These imported cases had travel histories to
22 different countries.
NO ENTRY OR TRANSIT THROUGH SINGAPORE FOR ALL SHORT-TERM VISITORS, WITH
LIMITED ENTRY FOR WORK PASS HOLDERS
4.        From 23 March 2020, 2359 hours, all short-term visitors (from
anywhere in the world) will not be allowed to enter or transit through
Singapore. Furthermore the Ministry of Manpower will only allow the
entry/ return of work pass holders [2], including their dependents, for
those providing essential services, such as in healthcare and
transport.
5.         As previously announced, all Singapore Citizens, Permanent
Residents and Long Term Pass holders [3] returning to Singapore will be
issued a 14-day SHN. [4] Persons under SHN must remain in their place of
residence at all times.
6.        The Singapore-Malaysia Special Working Committee has agreed
that Malaysians with Singapore work permits will continue to be able to
work in Singapore during this period, with appropriate accommodation
arrangements. The transport of all types of goods between Malaysia and
Singapore will also be facilitated. Discussions in the Committee are
ongoing.
7.        Singapore’s border control measures in relation to COVID-19
are summarised in the Annex.
8.        As Singapore’s measures will be adjusted according to the
evolving global situation, Singaporeans should check the Ministry of
Health’s website (https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19) for the latest
measures.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

22 MARCH 2020

Annex

List of Countries/Regions and Border Control Measures

TRAVEL HISTORY IN COUNTRIES/REGIONS

For Singapore Residents and Long-Term Pass Holders

For Short-Term Visitors

Hubei province (mainland China)

14-day quarantine

Not allowed entry or transit

All other countries/regions

14-day SHN

[1]  As of 21 March, 12pm.
[2] Currently, all work pass holders and their dependents planning to
enter/return to Singapore from any country are required to obtain MOM’s
approval before they can commence their journey.
[3] Long Term Pass holders include work passes, Student’s Pass,
Dependant’s Pass, and Long-term Visit Pass.
[4] The SHN will not apply to Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents
and Long Term Pass holders transiting in Singapore without leaving the
transit area.

