747 More Cases Discharged; 142 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



747 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 142 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 19 Jun 2020

      As of 19 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 142 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Social Visit Pass holder)
There are no Singaporean/ Permanent Resident cases today.
The community case (Case 41584) is a Prison inmate on Social Visit Pass,
who had arrived in Singapore before the implementation of border
measures. He had been segregated from the general inmate population
since his admission to Changi Prison Complex on 6 June. Although he is
asymptomatic, he was tested as part of Singapore Prison Service’s
proactive screening of newly admitted inmates.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 9 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 4 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 4 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 2 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
C) Cases residing in dormitories: 141
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.      Of the new cases, 97% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4.     In the past week (12 June to 18 June), MOH has uncovered links
for 8 previously unlinked cases.
5.      Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     747 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 33,459 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.      There are currently 212 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 2 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 7,918 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 JUNE 2020





