Temporary Cessation of Use of Two Influenza Vaccines



TEMPORARY CESSATION OF USE OF TWO INFLUENZA VACCINES


Published Date: 25 Oct 2020

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) is advising that use of two
influenza vaccines – SKYCellflu Quadrivalent and VaxigripTetra – should
be temporarily ceased. This is a precautionary measure following
reported deaths after influenza vaccination in South Korea. No deaths
associated with influenza vaccination have been reported in Singapore to
date. MOH and the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) are monitoring the
situation closely.
2.     HSA is in touch with the South Korean authorities for further
information as they investigate to determine if the deaths are related
to influenza vaccinations. Based on information released by the South
Korean health authorities, seven brands of influenza vaccines were
administered to the individuals involved in the deaths reported in South
Korea. Of the seven brands, two are available in Singapore. They are
SKYCellflu Quadrivalent, manufactured by SK Bioscience and locally
distributed by AJ Biologics, and VaxigripTetra, manufactured by Sanofi
Pasteur and locally distributed by Sanofi Aventis.
3.     As a precautionary measure while HSA is assessing the
implications of the reported deaths in South Korea, MOH has informed
healthcare providers and medical practitioners to temporarily stop the
use of these two vaccines. Healthcare providers and medical
practitioners may continue to use the two other influenza vaccines that
have been brought into Singapore for the Northern Hemisphere 2020/21
influenza season. MOH and HSA will assess the situation as more
information becomes available and further advise on the use of the
affected vaccines.
4.     Persons recommended to receive the influenza vaccination,
including those recommended under the National Childhood Immunisation
Schedule (NCIS) and National Adult Immunisation Schedule (NAIS), may
continue to receive their influenza vaccination using other brands of
influenza vaccines. Influenza vaccination provides protection against
seasonal influenza viruses, and is effective in reducing the risk of
complications and deaths due to influenza. This is especially so for
vulnerable groups such as the elderly, the young, pregnant women and
those with certain pre-existing medical conditions.
5.    Influenza vaccination is generally safe and well tolerated. Like
any medicines, vaccines can cause side effects. Common side effects from
influenza vaccination may include soreness and redness at the injection
site, fever, headaches, muscle aches, fatigue and nausea. These side
effects are generally mild and resolve on their own. In rare instances,
a person may experience high fever or severe allergic reactions (such as
breathing difficulty, wheezing and swelling around the eyes) and
immediate medical attention should be sought.
6.    Vaccines approved for use in Singapore have been evaluated by HSA
to ensure that they meet the required international standards of
quality, safety and efficacy. To ensure that the benefits continue to
outweigh the risks, HSA monitors the safety of vaccines through an
adverse event monitoring system. It draws on the network of local
healthcare professionals and international regulatory counterparts to
pick up adverse events suspected to be associated with the vaccines.
7.     MOH and HSA will continue to monitor the situation closely for
any concerns related to influenza vaccination and keep members of the
public updated on new developments.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY
25 OCTOBER 2020

