1,018 More Cases Discharged; 373 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection
Confirmed



1,018 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 373 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 28 May 2020

                As of 28 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified an additional 373 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:
  A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.
  B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Work Pass holder)
The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 6 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 5 per day in the
past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has remained
stable at an average of 2 per day in the past two weeks. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.
Today’s community case was picked up through our active screening of
preschool staff, and was asymptomatic. MOH will conduct a serological
test to determine if this was a past or current infection.
  C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 372
We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2.             Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.             Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.
4.             More than 39,000 preschool staff[1] have so far been
tested as part of our proactive screening. Of these, 13 staff had tested
positive using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, which is a
sensitive test that could pick up minute fragments of the COVID-19 virus
ribonucleic acid (RNA). To determine if these were past or current
infections, MOH has done an epidemiological study of these cases. Of the
13 cases, 11 of their serological tests have come back positive, which
is indicative of past infections. These individuals were unlikely to be
infectious by the time they were tested during the recent screening, but
could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA, which were no
longer transmissible and infective to others. Two test results are
pending, including today’s case.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5.             In the past week (21 May to 27 May), MOH has uncovered
links for 2 previously unlinked cases.
6.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.             1,018 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been
discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all,
18,294 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged
from hospitals or community care facilities.
8.             There are currently 510 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 7 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 14,422 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 23 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes ECDA’s preschools, MOE kindergartens and pre-school
sections in private education institutes.
