Confirmed cases of local transmission of novel coronavirus infection in
Singapore



CONFIRMED CASES OF LOCAL TRANSMISSION OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 04 Feb 2020

                 As of 4 February 2020, 2 pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed six additional cases of 2019 novel coronavirus
(2019-nCoV) infection in Singapore. Four of these cases involve
human-to-human transmission in Singapore. Eighteen confirmed cases were
earlier announced by MOH.
2.  Three of the local transmission cases can be traced to
contact with recent travellers from Mainland China. The fourth case is a
close contact of one of the local transmission cases. The remaining two
were from among the group of Singaporeans who were evacuated from Wuhan
on 30 January.
3.  Though four of these cases constitute a local
transmission cluster, there is as yet no evidence of widespread
sustained community transmission in Singapore.
ABOUT THE CONFIRMED CASES
Case 19
4.  She is a 28 year-old female Singapore resident who has no
recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at Singapore General Hospital (SGH).
5.  She works at Yong Thai Hang at 24 Cavan Road, a
complementary health products shop that primarily serves Chinese
tourists. She reported developing sore throat and fever on 29 January,
and sought treatment at a general practitioner clinic on the same day.
On 30 January, she went to Tan Tock Seng Hospital’s emergency
department, and was discharged when her chest x-ray came back negative
for pneumonia. She reported that she had not left her home at Jalan
Bukit Merah from 31 January to 2 February.
6.  On 3 February, she went to Singapore General Hospital
(SGH). As she was diagnosed with pneumonia this time, she was classified
as a suspect case and immediately isolated. Subsequent test results
confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 3 February past 11pm.
Case 20
7.  She is a 48 year-old female Singapore resident who has no
recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).
8.  She is a colleague of Case 19 and stays at Hougang Street
61. She reported onset of symptoms on 25 January.
9.  On 3 February, she went to NCID. Given that she is a
colleague of Case 19, she was classified as a suspect case and
immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV
infection this morning.
Case 21
10.  She is a 44 year-old female Indonesian national who has no
recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at SGH.
11.  She is Case 19’s foreign domestic worker, and resides at
Jalan Bukit Merah. She reported onset of symptoms on 2 February. As a
close contact of Case 19, she was admitted to SGH emergency department
on 3 February. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection
this afternoon.
12.  She reported that she had not left her place of residence
since onset of symptoms.
Cases 22 and 23
13.  They are Singapore residents who were evacuated from Wuhan
on 30 January. They were without symptoms when they boarded the flight,
and were put under quarantine upon landing in Singapore.
14.  As an added precaution, all Singaporeans evacuated from
Wuhan were tested for 2019-nCoV. The two cases tested positive on 3
February  despite continuing to show no symptoms. They are now warded in
isolation rooms at NCID.
Case 24
15.  She is a 32 year-old female Singapore resident who has no
recent travel history to China. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at NCID.
16.  The case is a tourist guide who had brought tour groups to
Yong Thai Hang at 24 Cavan Road, the same shop of which cases 19 and 20
are employees. She was asymptomatic when she went to NCID on 3 February,
where she was immediately isolated. Subsequent test results confirmed
2019-nCoV infection this afternoon.
17.  In addition to the above cases, Malaysia has also announced
this afternoon a case involving a 42 year-old male Malaysian national
who was in Singapore from 16 to 23 January for a business meeting at
Grand Hyatt Hotel, which involved Chinese nationals.  He had onset of
symptoms after his return to Malaysia, and subsequently tested positive
for 2019-nCoV on 3 February.
18.  MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and
contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the
cases.
ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES
19.  The four cases of local transmission (cases 19, 20, 21 and
24) were identified as a result of enhanced surveillance at our
hospitals. Though this cluster constitutes limited local transmission,
there is as yet no evidence of widespread sustained community
transmission. Three of the four cases can be traced to contact with
recent travellers from Mainland China, and had prolonged interactions
with these travellers. Pending confirmation from the Chinese
authorities, the travellers are from Guangxi, and at least two of them
have since been confirmed with 2019-nCoV infection.
20.  Singapore has been preparing for such clusters, and our
measures implemented thus far have been directed towards preventing and
containing the risk of spread beyond such local clusters to the broader
community. As we have stepped up our surveillance, we expect to see more
such local clusters in Singapore, including cases of local transmission.
21.  The following enhancements will be implemented as an added
precaution in view of the latest developments.
Enhanced personal hygiene and environmental cleaning
22.  Current evidence suggests that the likely modes of
transmission are mainly through contact with droplets from infected
individuals, either directly or indirectly through hands that have come
into contact with these droplets. The virus can also transmit through
surface contact. The most effective method to prevent such transmission
is through good individual personal hygiene, and social responsibility
on the part of those who are unwell. Everyone should wash their hands
regularly, avoid touching their faces, and stay home if they are unwell.
23.  We must also pay more attention to keeping the environment
around us clean. We have advised businesses and organisations to
increase the frequency of cleaning, especially high-traffic premises
such as food and beverage outlets, retail shops and hotels. Beyond this,
we also urge individuals to play their part to keep their personal
workspaces clean.
Heightened measures for the vulnerable
24.  We have thus far taken a more cautious stance with
vulnerable groups, including young children and the elderly. As an added
precaution, our schools will be adopting additional measures to lower
the risk of transmission among students and staff, including staggered
recesses and suspension of school assemblies. Our pre-schools will
suspend large group and communal activities.
25.  Our eldercare facilities will also suspend external
excursions and large scale gatherings.
Active case finding for similar cases
26.  We are also contacting individuals with profiles similar to
the above four cases of local transmission, who have had recent close
contact with individuals with travel history to Mainland China.
27.  MOH has also expanded surveillance efforts to conduct
2019-nCoV testing on all individuals with pneumonia at our hospitals
since last week.
ENHANCEMENTS AS PART OF CALIBRATED EFFORTS TO EVOLVING SITUATION
28.  We are closely monitoring the situation, and will calibrate
our posture accordingly as new developments arise.
29.  Our travel restrictions for those with travel history to
Mainland China, and measures to place returned travellers under
quarantine or leave of absence, will continue to help to contain the
risk of spread.
30.  It is possible that there could be broader community spread
despite our best efforts. Should that happen, we will consider
additional measures to reduce human-to-human interactions, such as
cancelling mass gatherings, suspending schools, and paring down
non-essential care services, to slow the spread of disease.
DISCHARGE CASE
31.  One of our earlier confirmed cases, Case 7, a 35 year old
male Wuhan resident, has been discharged from NCID today. He has
recovered, and has been comprehensively tested negative for the virus.
