1,275 More Cases Discharged, 793 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection
Confirmed



1,275 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 793 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 15 May 2020

  As of 15 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 793 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A)  IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Singaporean/Permanent
Resident)

The number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an average
of 8 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 4 per day in the
past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has also
decreased, from an average of 3 cases per day in the week before, to an
average of 1 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.

C)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING OUTSIDE DORMITORIES): 1

The number of new cases amongst Work Permit holders residing outside
dormitories has decreased, from an average of 6 cases per day in the
week before, to an average of 2 per day in the past week.

D)  WORK PERMIT HOLDERS (RESIDING IN DORMITORIES): 791

We continue to pick up many more cases amongst Work Permit holders
residing in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories,
because of extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process
to verify and test the status of all workers.

2.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.  Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.

4.  MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to McDonald’s and
the renovation sites at the National University Hospital (5 Lower Kent
Ridge Road) for the past two incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the
clusters have now been closed.



LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

5.  In the past week (8 May to 14 May), MOH has uncovered
links for 68 previously unlinked cases.

6.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

7.  1,275 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been
discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all,
7,248 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged
from hospitals or community care facilities.

8.  There are currently 1,124 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 18 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 18,498 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 21 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 MAY 2020
