New Integrated General and Community Hospital In Bedok North



NEW INTEGRATED GENERAL AND COMMUNITY HOSPITAL IN BEDOK NORTH


Published Date: 13 Nov 2020

       Residents in the eastern part of Singapore will be served by a
new integrated general and community hospital in Bedok North when it is
ready around 2030. The new hospital will be located next to the Bedok
North MRT station, bounded by Bedok Reservoir Road and Bedok North Road.
2.    The location of the new hospital was announced by Mr Gan Kim Yong,
Minister for Health, at a visit to the Outram Community Hospital today.
The Ministry of Health (MOH) first announced its plans to build the new
integrated hospital in the eastern part of Singapore during the
Committee of Supply debate in March 2020. Please refer to Annex A for
the map.
3.   The range of services provided at the general hospital will
include emergency services, inpatient and specialist outpatient services
that will cater to the needs of the community in the region. The
community hospital will provide intermediate services such as
rehabilitation and sub-acute care to support patients discharged from
the general hospital.
4.   The co-location of the general hospital and community hospital is
part of our shift towards a more patient-centric, multidisciplinary
approach to provide seamless care to patients. This is similar to other
acute and community hospitals co-located at the same site, including Tan
Tock Seng Hospital and Ren Ci Community Hospital, Ng Teng Fong General
Hospital (NTFGH) and Jurong Community Hospital (JCH), as well as
Singapore General Hospital and Outram Community Hospital.
5.   The new general hospital will be operated by Singapore Health
Services (SingHealth). MOH and SingHealth will engage the local
community to co-create ideas on how the new hospital can better meet the
needs of the community. More details will be shared when available.
6.   Mr Gan said, “We anticipate that healthcare demand will continue
to grow as a result of population growth and ageing. While we have
increased the capacity of Changi General Hospital through expansions
over the years, the upcoming new hospital in Bedok North will enable us
to serve the healthcare needs of the community in the Eastern region of
Singapore better. MOH will continue to invest in healthcare
infrastructure and facilities to meet Singaporeans’ current and
projected healthcare needs, and to enable the public to continue to
conveniently access affordable and quality care.”
7.   MOH has improved accessibility to healthcare services through the
development of more general and community hospitals and national
specialty centres across Singapore in the past few years, including
NTFGH, JCH and Yishun Community Hospital in 2015, Sengkang General
Hospital and Sengkang Community Hospital in 2018, and the National
Centre for Infectious Diseases, the National University Centre for Oral
Health and Outram Community Hospital in 2019. Together with the upcoming
Woodlands Health Campus and the Tan Tock Seng Hospital Integrated Care
Hub at Novena which are expected to open from 2023, the addition of the
new integrated general and community hospital in Bedok North will bring
the total number of public acute hospitals to 12 and the number of
community hospitals to 12 by around 2030. We are also redeveloping
Alexandra Hospital, and two national specialty centres – the new
National Cancer Centre and the National Skin Centre.
8.   MOH will call for tenders over the coming weeks to appoint project
consultants to plan and design the new integrated hospital at Bedok
North.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 NOVEMBER 2020


