Measures to Contain the Covid-19 Outbreak In Migrant Worker Dormitories



MEASURES TO CONTAIN THE COVID-19 OUTBREAK IN MIGRANT WORKER DORMITORIES


Published Date: 14 Dec 2020

1.     The vast majority of the COVID-19 cases in Singapore occurred in
migrant worker dormitories, where the SARS-CoV-2 virus spread quickly
due to their communal living arrangements. Earlier health and safe
distancing measures turned out to be inadequate, given the highly
infectious nature of the novel virus, and because pre-symptomatic and
asymptomatic transmission was also taking place.

2.     In all, 54,505 out of the 58,320 who tested positive in Singapore
for COVID-19 via a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test were migrant
workers living in dormitories. This is out of a total of over 320,000
migrant workers who live in dormitories. [1] At the peak of the outbreak
in April, more than 1,000 new cases a day were being detected in the
dormitories. [2]

3.     We acted swiftly and decisively to stabilise the situation in the
dormitories. Working closely with dormitory operators, employers, the
medical community, NGOs and other community groups, we contained the
outbreak and cleared the dormitories of the virus. By August, all
migrant workers living in dormitories had been tested for COVID-19 at
least once. Almost all of them have since also been cleared to resume
work safely.
4.     Despite the scale of the outbreak in the dormitories, the
morbidity and mortality rate among our migrant workers has been very
low. There were 25 COVID-19-related ICU admissions amongst migrant
workers living in dormitories and only two deaths due to COVID-19,
including one of those who had been admitted to the ICU.
CONTAINMENT AND TESTING STRATEGY
_April – May 2020: Containing the outbreak
_5.     Initially, our top priority was to contain the spread of
COVID-19 in the dormitories. We placed all dormitories under isolation
by mid-April, in line with the national Circuit Breaker measures.
Throughout this phase, we stepped up our capacity to detect and isolate
cases in the dormitories, and to care for the health of all our migrant
workers.
6.     We stepped up testing to help us assess the situation in each
dormitory. By the end of April, 1 in every 15 workers in dormitories had
been PCR tested, far higher than the testing rates in other countries.
Even so, due to the large numbers, we were not able to test all the
migrant workers in the dormitories at once. We prioritised PCR testing
for migrant workers in essential services so they could be cleared to
continue working safely during the Circuit Breaker period.
7.     At the same time, any worker who reported sick or showed symptoms
of acute respiratory infection during this period was isolated, and
given medical care regardless of whether he had received a PCR test.
8.     To complement the testing and identify potential new cases
quickly, thermometers and more than 25,000 oximeters were distributed.
Every migrant worker living in the dormitories checked and reported his
temperature and oximeter readings twice a day. Medical teams monitored
these reports, and intervened early when they found abnormalities.
9.     Medical support was set up at the dormitories by the end of April
to care for those who were unwell, and monitor the health of those who
were well. These included:
.     a.     Medical posts staffed by teams of doctors, nurses and
technicians at all 43 Purpose-Built Dormitories (PBDs).
.     b.     8 medical posts, complemented by roving medical teams, that
served all non-PBDs (e.g. Factory-Converted Dormitories and Construction
Temporary Quarters).
Migrant workers living in the community also had access to the
nation-wide network of more than 900 Public Health Preparedness Clinics
and Polyclinics.
_June – August 2020: Clearing the dormitories of COVID-19 infection_
10.     By June, our focus shifted to clearing the dormitories of
COVID-19, so the migrant workers could resume work safely. Testing was
key.
11.     Our measures reflected the growing scientific understanding of
COVID-19. We were discovering that a significant number of infected
persons had no or mild symptoms, but could nevertheless spread COVID-19
to others. We also found that infected persons who had recovered could
still continue shedding non-infectious viral fragments for several
months.
12.     Our testing strategy therefore had to help us distinguish who
had never been infected; who had had an old infection but had since
recovered; and who was currently infected and still harbouring the
virus, with or without symptoms. This would help us separate those who
had never been infected or had had the virus earlier but were no longer
infectious, from those who were currently infected or potentially
harbouring the virus even without symptoms.
13.     Over time, more testing methods were becoming available,
including serology tests. While PCR tests are used to diagnose current
or new infections, serology tests identify those who had been infected
in the past, by detecting the presence of COVID-19 antibodies in blood
samples.
14.     A detailed comparison of various testing methods used is
in Appendix I.
15.     In June, we took the extraordinary decision to systematically
test all migrant workers living in dormitories, symptomatic or
otherwise. In dormitories with a high incidence of infections, we
applied a differentiated approach. All workers in these dormitories were
screened with a combination of serology as well as PCR tests.
     a.     If they tested serology-positive, it meant that they had
been infected earlier. These workers underwent a seven-day period of
isolation, at the end of which we could be confident that they were no
longer infectious, and did not need to be tested further.
.     b.     Those who tested serology-negative were separately isolated
for a longer period of 14 days, in case they were incubating the virus
despite being asymptomatic. They were given a PCR test at the end of the
isolation period to confirm that they were free from infection.
16.     This combination of PCR and serology tests enabled us avoid
isolating or quarantining recovered workers for prolonged periods, so
that they could return to their dormitories or workplaces sooner.
17.     By August, all migrant workers had been tested at least once for
COVID-19. We were confident that the outbreak had been contained. By
early November, more than 98 per cent of our migrant workers living in
dormitories were cleared to resume work.

OVERALL CASE COUNT AND PREVALENCE RATE

18.     Our comprehensive testing strategy has provided us a more
complete picture of the prevalence of COVID-19 in our migrant worker
dormitories.
_PCR and serology test results of migrant workers_
19.     As at 13 December 2020:
.     a.     54,505 dormitory residents have tested positive using the
PCR test.
.     b.     Another 98,289 have tested serology-positive though they
did not have a positive PCR test.
The data is summarised in Table 1.
Table 1: Dormitory-dwelling migrant workers and their test results (as
at 13 December 2020)

1.

    A. PCR-positive*

    54,505

    B. Serology-positive only

    98,289

    Ratio of PCR-positive to serology-positive only (A:B)

    1:1.8

    Prevalence rate, i.e. (A+B)/(total dormitory dwellers)

    47% (of 323,000 dormitory dwellers)

    _*Including some who have tested both PCR-positive and
    serology-positive._



    20.     Among the migrant workers who tested PCR-positive or
    serology-positive, the vast majority were asymptomatic or had very
    mild symptoms. Only about 1 in 5 of migrant workers living in PBDs
    presented with symptoms, with the remaining 4 in 5 displaying very
    mild or no symptoms. [3]

    21.     Including the serology test results, the prevalence rate of
    COVID-19 in the dormitories is currently 47 per cent. For every
    COVID-19 infection in the dormitories detected through PCR testing,
    another 1.8 cases were untested and undetected at the time, and were
    identified subsequently only through serology testing. This is not
    surprising as many migrant workers did not have any symptoms, and
    thus would not have sought treatment and received a PCR test in the
    process. The ratio of PCR-positive to serology-positive among
    migrant workers in dormitories is comparable to the ratio of 1:1.8
    for the whole of South Korea, and lower than 1:4 in Spain, and 1:15
    in France [4]. Our low ratio reflects the extensive PCR testing we
    carried out in the dormitories.

    _Reporting of cases_

    22.     Singapore reports COVID-19 cases in accordance with
    international practice. Every case who tested positive through a PCR
    test and was assessed to be an acute infection is reported and
    included in our case count. We follow WHO’s criterion that only
    positive results from confirmatory tests (i.e. PCR tests) are
    included in the case count. This ensures consistency in reporting
    cases across countries.

    23.     A different approach is taken for reporting the results of
    serology tests. As these tests identify past cases of infection,
    they are used to aid epidemiological investigations and for
    retrospective assessment of the overall prevalence of infections
    within a population. Therefore, serology test outcomes are
    aggregated and presented as an estimate of prevalence in the
    population, separate from the daily case counts.

    24.     Most countries only do serology testing on a sampling basis,
    to estimate the prevalence of infections in a population. But
    Singapore went further to do serology tests on our entire population
    of migrant workers living in the dormitories. This was a unique
    aspect of our efforts to clear the dormitories of COVID-19.

    25.     As at 13 December 2020, we are still in the process of
    completing serology tests for 65,000 or so migrant workers living in
    dormitories who had not taken a serology test before. This will give
    us the full picture of the infection prevalence among our migrant
    workers.

    PHASE THREE

    26.     Having tested all migrant workers living in the dormitories,
    we will continue with Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) of every worker
    who may still be susceptible to infection, in order to detect and
    contain new infections rapidly. All such workers living in
    dormitories, and those who work in the construction, marine and
    process (CMP) sectors, have been undergoing RRT once every 14 days.

    27.     After several RRT cycles, the number of new infections have
    remained very low. Since October, no new cases were detected in the
    dormitories on many days.

    28.     Having brought the outbreak in the dormitories under
    control, and instituted Safe Living and Safe Working measures at all
    dormitories and worksites, we will progressively ease the
    restrictions on migrant workers.

2.  a.  With the transition into Phase Three, we are preparing to return
        migrant workers to the community in a controlled manner, with
        strict measures in place.

    b.  We will start a pilot scheme in the first quarter of 2021 to
        allow migrant workers in some dormitories to access the
        community once a month, subject to compliance with RRT, wearing
        of contact-tracing devices and safe living measures.

29.     We will continue to keep our migrant workers safe, and to ensure
that we detect and contain any new cases or clusters quickly.
.     a.     Meanwhile, we are monitoring the earliest cohort of migrant
workers who have recovered from COVID-19 and are currently exempt from
RRT. We are studying how their antibodies change over time. We will
resume RRT for these workers if we detect their antibodies starting to
fade, or if there is evidence of re-infection among them.
.     b.     We will continue our multi-layered strategy of aggressive
routine testing using both PCR and antigen rapid testing, accompanied by
isolation strategies.
.     c.     By end-December, we will complete distributing
contact-tracing devices to more than 450,000 workers living in
dormitories, or working in the construction, marine and process sectors.
These devices will improve our ability to isolate and ringfence
potential cases once they are detected.
.     d.     We are also building new dormitories with improved safety
standards to minimise the risk of a resurgence of COVID-19 among migrant
workers, and prevent new public health threats.
30.     The Government will continue to work with our partners and the
community to ensure a safe living and working environment for our
migrant workers, as we move towards Phase Three.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes all Purpose-Built Dormitories (PBDs) and non-PBDs (e.g.
Factory-Converted Dormitories, Construction Temporary Quarters, and
temporary living quarters).

[2] Our highest daily COVID-19 case count in the dormitories was
recorded on 20 April 2020, with a total of 1,397 new cases detected
among dormitory residents that day.

[3] Based on a study of migrant workers living in PBDs who had tested
positive by PCR or serology tests as of 25 July 2020.

[4] Lai et al. Population-based seroprevalence surveys of
anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibody: An up-to-date review. Int Journal of
Infectious Diseases 101 (2020) 314-322.
