Roadmap to Phase Three



ROADMAP TO PHASE THREE


Published Date: 20 Oct 2020

       It has been more than half a year since we entered Circuit
Breaker, and more than four months since we started our gradual
reopening. We have come a long way, ramping up healthcare capacity,
contact tracing and testing capabilities, putting in place safe
management measures in the community, workplaces and dormitories, and
opening our borders in a safe and calibrated manner. With everyone’s
efforts and sacrifices, we have been able to control the infection and
keep community transmission low thus far.
2.      To continue our journey of safe re-opening towards Phase Three,
several conditions and enablers need to be in place. In particular, we
must continue scaling up testing and tracing efforts as well as adhering
to the safe management measures. This is how we can progressively resume
more activities safely while keeping community transmission low.
3.      Phase Three is not a return to the pre-COVID status quo ante. It
will entail new ways of working and living, until the world has the
virus under tight control (e.g. through more effective treatments and
vaccines that are widely available). So we have to be prepared to stay
in Phase Three for a prolonged period (potentially more than a year).
Phase Three will also not be static. If we can put in place more
enablers, there is scope for further reopening and scaling up of
activities even within Phase Three.
KEY ENABLERS FOR PHASE THREE
_Continued Adherence to Safe Management Measures
_4_.     _We have seen a resurgence of COVID-19 in other countries as
they open up to more activities or due to lack of adherence to safe
management measures. To ensure that the situation in Singapore remains
under control despite the continued presence of cases in our community,
we will each have to keep up the habits and practices that we have
painstakingly put in place over the past few months:
_Testing to Enable More Activities
a) _Small group sizes. Keeping group sizes small and limiting the number
of contacts that we have slows down the rate of virus transmission and
reduces the risk of super-spreading events. We will continue to set
limits on group sizes, both in public spaces and visitors to the home.
b) Safe distancing. Safe distancing, including no intermingling between
individuals and groups, remains a key measure in reducing the risk of
spread. We will continue to set requirements on safe distancing, as well
as to disallow or minimise interactions between groups.
c) Social responsibility. Mask-wearing and personal hygiene protect us
and others from COVID-19. Persons with symptoms of acute respiratory
infection should seek medical attention at the earliest opportunity and
follow up with a Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) swab test if directed
by the doctor.
_Testing to Enable More Activities
5.     _To enable more activities to resume in a safe manner, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce is piloting the use of pre-event COVID-19
testing for larger-scale and higher-risk activities to reduce the risk
of a COVID-19 case being present at the event.
6.      Pre-event testing requires participants to an event or activity
to be tested shortly before the event, either at the event venue itself
or at a separate testing facility. Only participants who test negative
for COVID-19 will be allowed to participate in the event. This helps to
prevent positive cases from transmitting the disease to other people at
the event.
7.      Given the need for a shorter turnaround time for pre-event
testing, we are exploring the use of antigen rapid tests which can
return fairly accurate results quickly. This is part of our strategy to
expand beyond the highly accurate PCR tests to have a range of tests to
cater for various use cases. Due to the lower sensitivity of antigen
rapid tests, there is still a possibility that a COVID-19 case could
slip through to attend the event. Therefore there is still a need for
safe management measures to be put in place, including mask-wearing,
safe distancing, group size and capacity limits, to reduce the risk of
transmission. The lower accuracy of antigen rapid tests also means there
could be false positives, i.e. persons who are tested positive even
though they are not infected.
8.      The pilots will enable the Ministry of Health (MOH) to trial
pre-event testing processes to identify different models that can be
implemented more widely and allow more large-scale or higher-risk events
to resume eventually. From mid-October to December 2020, we will be
identifying selected events across different settings, such as
business-to-business events, wedding receptions, live performances, and
sports events to test different operational workflows for pre-event
testing. For example, one business-to-business event where pre-event
testing will be piloted is the Singapore International Energy Week next
week. We will gather feedback from event organisers and participants to
finetune these processes. If these pilots prove successful, we will
assess how to make these tests available for more widespread use. For
further information, please refer to this Factsheet on Pilots for
Pre-event Testing.
_Digital Contact Tracing Tools to Enable More Activities
_9.  _   _Alongside safe management measures and scaled up testing, we
need to continue to strengthen our contact tracing regime, leveraging
our two key digital contact tracing tools – SafeEntry and TraceTogether.
The active use of SafeEntry has significantly improved MOH’s ability to
detect COVID-19 clusters quickly. At the same time, we need greater
participation in the TraceTogether Programme to help us quickly identify
close contacts of COVID-positive cases. These digital tools are critical
for quickly ringfencing any cases that emerge as a result of larger
group sizes and larger-scale activities. Without these tools, we may
have multiple generations of spread and large clusters forming.
10.      We will need a higher take-up rate for TraceTogether before we
can start Phase Three. Local and international experience suggests that
social interactions, which often take place in close proximity,
sometimes without masks on, and often for prolonged periods, are key
areas of spread. It is therefore imperative that there is higher
adoption of TraceTogether, so that we are able to quickly contact trace
and ringfence any infections.
11.      Another prerequisite is to expand the deployment of
TraceTogether-only SafeEntry, where visitors are required to check in to
SafeEntry through either scanning the QR code using the TraceTogether
App on your phone, or by presenting your TraceTogether Token to be
scanned. This allows us to ensure that persons visiting places where
people are likely to be in contact for prolonged periods, or where human
traffic is high, have the TraceTogether App or Token. In this regard, we
will progressively roll out TraceTogether-only SafeEntry to workplaces,
schools, and more public venues, including cinemas, live performances,
shopping malls, and F&B outlets.
12.      We encourage everyone to download the App or collect a Token
for use at the TraceTogether-only SafeEntry premises. TraceTogether
tokens are now available for collection at 38 Community Centres/ Clubs
(CCs) around Singapore, and are expected to be available at all 108 CCs
by end-November 2020. Please refer to the TokenGoWhere website
(https://token.gowhere.gov.sg) to find the latest schedule and locate a
convenient site for collection.
MOVING TO PHASE THREE
13.     With the above conditions and enablers in place, we will be
able to move to Phase Three. The shift to Phase Three will entail the
following adjustments. The exact timing of these changes will depend on
our collective ability to cooperate with the requirements. Details of
some of the measures which will be updated in the coming weeks are
summarised in Annex.
_Increasing Group Size
_14._     _In Phase Three, the group size for gatherings outside the
home could be increased from the present 5 persons to 8 persons. The
number of visitors allowed to homes would similarly increase to 8.
_Increasing Capacity Limits
_15.  _   _Presently, public venues like museums and attractions are
already open, subject to a capacity limit. Events like congregational
worship services and wedding receptions can also be held in two zones of
50 persons. In Phase Three, these capacity limits could be increased,
and we could allow events with multiple zones of 50 persons. All of
these adjustments would have to be done in a controlled manner, setting
by setting, over the course of Phase Three, and additional measures
would apply for specific settings.
16.      For example, wedding receptions are higher-risk activities,
where people are gathered for a meal without their masks on, and there
is a greater likelihood of social interactions. Any expansion in the
number of attendees would therefore require additional safety measures,
including having all the guests go through a pre-event test.
17.      It is also critical to adhere to the safe management measures
in these large-scale events. Therefore, Government agencies may also
request video and photographic footage of the events, to facilitate
checks and investigations against any breaches of the rules.
_Considerations for Activities in Higher-Risk Settings
_18._     _Higher-risk settings like bars, pubs, karaoke lounges and
nightclubs are closed today as their activities pose a higher risk of
transmission. Even at the start of Phase Three, we do not expect to open
these venues. But we are prepared to consider a few limited pilots in
these settings, subject to a more stringent set of measures, including
pre-entry testing, to explore how the industry could resume safely. We
will discuss these possibilities with the nightlife industry. But we
have to be realistic that it will take a long time for the industry to
fully re-open in its original form. Where there is non-resumption, the
Government will put in place an assistance package to help business
operators and owners transit and pivot to new areas.
_Facilitating travel and re-opening of borders
_19._     _Unlike larger countries which can keep their borders closed,
our livelihoods and economic survival depend heavily on Singapore being
open to the world and being a key international and travel hub. It is
therefore not possible for Singapore to keep our borders closed
indefinitely. We will have to gradually allow more travel to resume in a
safe manner.
20.      Through the unilateral opening of borders and Air Travel
Bubbles, we are allowing travellers from low-risk countries/ regions
(i.e. those which have comprehensive public health surveillance systems
and displayed successful control over the spread of the COVID-19 virus)
to enter Singapore with a COVID-19 test without the need to serve a
Stay-Home Notice (SHN).
21.      For travellers from higher-risk countries/ regions, our current
approach is to subject them to SHN at home or at dedicated SHN
facilities. We are exploring ways to deploy more frequent testing,
coupled with other safeguards, to enable more travellers to enter
Singapore without a need to serve SHN, while minimising the risk of
transmission to the community.
22.      Currently, Singaporeans Citizens (SC)/ Permanent Residents
(PR)/ Long-Term Pass Holders (LTPH) who travel out of Singapore from 27
March 2020 onwards are responsible for their own inpatient medical
bills, if they have onset of symptoms for COVID-19 within 14 days of
their return to Singapore, and are unable to access government subsidies
or insurance coverage (be it MediShield Life/ Integrated Plans or
private insurance). [1] In line with the progressive move to reopen our
borders, we will henceforth allow all SCs/ PRs/ LTPHs travelling
overseas to access government subsidies and insurance coverage for their
medical bills.
23.      There is no change to the charging policy for SCs/ PRs/ LTPHs
who departed Singapore before 27 March 2020, i.e. the Government will
continue to pay for their inpatient medical bills for COVID-19 treatment
upon return, if any.
ROAD TO PHASE THREE AND BEYOND
24.     As we make these adjustments towards a new COVID normal, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to explore parallel tracks such
as vaccines, treatment, testing and other technologies which could
enable us to further ease restrictions and resume connectivity with the
world in a safe manner. The journey ahead may be long, but with the
cooperation of everyone, including businesses, scientists, frontline
workers, and the general public, we are confident of transiting smoothly
to Phase Three and beyond, emerging stronger from this experience.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The current exceptions are those who travel on permitted travel
regimes (e.g. reciprocal green lanes) or students who travel overseas
for full-time studies.
