Enhanced Subsidies for Nationally Recommended Vaccinations and Childhood
Developmental Screening



ENHANCED SUBSIDIES FOR NATIONALLY RECOMMENDED VACCINATIONS AND CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENTAL SCREENING


Published Date: 13 Jul 2020

        As part of our efforts to better protect Singaporeans from
vaccine-preventable diseases and to reduce the risk of outbreaks in the
community, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will enhance subsidies for
vaccinations recommended under the National Childhood Immunisation
Schedule (NCIS) and National Adult Immunisation Schedule (NAIS) at all
Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS) General Practitioner (GP) clinics
and polyclinics from 1 November 2020.
2.     All eligible Singaporean children will also receive full
subsidies for childhood developmental screening at all CHAS GP clinics
and polyclinics, so that they may receive the necessary developmental
assessments together with their childhood immunisations from their
family doctor.
INCLUSION OF VARICELLA, INFLUENZA AND PNEUMOCOCCAL POLYSACCHARIDE
VACCINES INTO THE NCIS
3.          From 1 November 2020, the following vaccines will be added
to the NCIS to better protect children against various
vaccine-preventable diseases:
   a) Two types of varicella-containing vaccines will be available for
the prevention of chickenpox:
       i) combined measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccine;
and
       ii) monovalent varicella vaccine.
     b) Influenza vaccines for target groups of children who are at
higher risk of developing influenza-related complications.
   c) The pneumococcal 23-valent polysaccharide vaccine will be included
to protect children with chronic or rare medical conditions who are at
high risk of developing severe pneumococcal disease caused by the
bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae. This is in addition to the existing
pneumococcal conjugate vaccines currently recommended for all young
children.
Please see Annex A for the updated NCIS.
ENHANCED SUBSIDY FOR NATIONALLY RECOMMENDED VACCINATIONS AND CHILDHOOD
DEVELOPMENTAL SCREENING
4.         From 1 November 2020, Singaporeans will benefit from higher
subsidies of between $35 to $125 for nationally-recommended vaccinations
listed on the Subsidised Vaccine List (SVL) administered at CHAS GP
clinics. Eligible Singaporeans need only pay the following amounts for
the range of nationally recommended vaccinations at CHAS GP clinics,
after government subsidies:
       i. Eligible Singaporean children: $0
       ii. Eligible Pioneer Generation cardholders: capped at $9 to $16
per vaccination  dose
       iii. Eligible Merdeka Generation, CHAS Blue and Orange
cardholders: capped at $18 to $31 per vaccination dose
       iv. Other eligible adult Singaporeans: capped at $35 to $63 per
vaccination dose
5.      At the polyclinics, adult Singaporeans will receive up to 75%
subsidy for NAIS vaccinations. Pioneer Generation and Merdeka Generation
seniors will also receive an additional 50% and 25% subsidy from their
subsidised vaccination bills respectively. Prices after government
subsidies are expected to be similar to that at the CHAS GP clinics.
Please see Annex B for vaccinations listed under the NAIS.
6.        Eligible Singaporean children will also receive full subsidy
for the seven childhood developmental screening milestones, at CHAS GP
clinics and polyclinics.
7.          Please see Annex C for details on patient fees and
subsidies.
8.     Only selected vaccine brands listed on the SVL will be eligible
for vaccination subsidies. MOH may review the listings periodically, in
response to new price proposals from manufacturers, regulatory approval
of new vaccines and other changes in global market conditions.
9.      As clinics may require time to procure vaccines that are
required, individuals are encouraged to make appointments with their
preferred clinics for their vaccinations before their visit.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 JULY 2020
