482 More Cases Discharged, 386 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



482 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 386 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 08 Jun 2020

    As of 8 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified an additional 386 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore.
The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2 (1 Singaporean, 1 Work Pass holder)

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing for the 2 cases in the
community today. Both were symptomatic, and had been tested after
seeking medical treatment at Public Health Preparedness Clinics.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 3 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 9 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also increased, from an average of 2 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 4 per day in the past week. This is partly due to our
active surveillance and screening of targeted groups, which have picked
up more cases in the past week [1]. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 384

We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.   Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

4.   In the past week (1 June to 7 June), MOH has uncovered links for 4
previously unlinked cases.

5.   Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

6.     482 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 25,368 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.

7.     There are currently 269 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 4 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,634 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 25 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
8 JUNE 2020
==
[1] These include surveillance testing of workers in essential services,
staff in preschools, and school staff and students above the age of 12
who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first
presentation to a doctor, as well as those with prolonged ARI symptoms.

