Implementation of New Baseline Service At Eldercare Centres for All
Seniors



IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW BASELINE SERVICE AT ELDERCARE CENTRES FOR ALL SENIORS


Published Date: 07 Dec 2020

1.      The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be rolling out a new baseline
service at eldercare centres to serve all seniors nationwide. As part of
the service, each eldercare centre will serve as the go-to point for all
seniors in their community and provide an “ABC” suite of services. These
consist of Active ageing programmes, Befriending or buddying, and
information and referral to Care services. The new baseline service will
be implemented in phases from 2021.
NATIONWIDE SUPPORT FOR ALL SENIORS
2.  Strong community support is key to ensuring that seniors can
enjoy good health in their old age. Today, there are about 130 Senior
Activity Centres providing active ageing, preventive health and social
support programming primarily to residents in rental flats and studio
apartments. In addition, there are about 150 Senior Care Centres and
Active Ageing Hubs which cater to seniors who are more frail and require
additional care services such as day care or community rehabilitation.
3.  To enhance support to seniors nationwide regardless of their
housing type, income, or frailty levels, a new baseline service will be
progressively rolled out to these centres (collectively referred to as
“eldercare centres”). This would further our goals of helping seniors
age healthily, having timely access to quality care, staying connected
to the community, and contributing as they wish.
COMPREHENSIVE “ABC” SUITE OF SUPPORT
4.  With the baseline service, each eldercare centre will serve as
the go-to point for all seniors and provide a suite of services
including active ageing programmes, befriending or buddying, and
information and referral to care services. Through the eldercare
centres, seniors can look forward to regular programmes in their
community and volunteering opportunities to help other seniors. The
eldercare centres will also proactively engage seniors to ensure that
their needs are addressed promptly. Seniors with poorer social support
will receive befriending and buddying services, and seniors with higher
care needs will continue to be referred to the appropriate care
services, such as home care e.g. home medical or home nursing, or
centre-based care e.g. day care or centre based rehabilitation services.
5.  Minister for Social and Family Development and Second Minister
for Health, Mr Masagos Zulkifli said, “Longer life expectancy is a gift
to celebrate, and we can do more of the things we enjoy if we stay fit
and healthy. With the new baseline service model, seniors will have more
opportunities to stay active and take charge of their health. Seniors
and their caregivers will also be better able to navigate the social and
health support available. I look forward to eldercare centres adding to
the vibrancy of each community, and seniors participating or
volunteering actively to help other seniors in their midst.”

6.  Eldercare centres will be brought on board the new model in
phases from May 2021 to 2024. This will allow eldercare centres
sufficient time to ramp up their resources and level up their
capabilities before transiting to the new model. MOH will also
incorporate feedback from stakeholders to refine the model and its
services along the way. MOH and the Agency for Integrated Care (AIC)
have been engaging eldercare centres on the new model since November
2020 and will be working with them to facilitate the transition.
7.  MOH will continue to work with seniors, their caregivers, the
eldercare centre providers, and other stakeholders in the public,
private and people sectors to raise the capabilities and competencies of
eldercare centres to enhance support for seniors.
