765 More Cases Discharged; 218 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



765 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 218 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 20 Jun 2020

                  As of 20 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed and verified an additional 218 cases of COVID-19 infection
in Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:
  A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.
  B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2 (2 Work Permit holders)
There are no Singaporean/ Permanent Resident cases today.
Of the 2 cases in the community, 1 had been picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and the other had already been
placed on quarantine.
Case 41673 had been identified as a contact of previously confirmed
cases, and had already been quarantined at a government quarantine
facility. He had been swabbed during quarantine to verify his status,
even though he is asymptomatic. Case 41848 is also asymptomatic, and was
detected as a result of our efforts to screen workers in essential
services.
Besides the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, we also conducted
serological tests to determine if these cases are current or past
infections.[1] The serological test results for both cases have come
back positive, which indicate likely past infections.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 8 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 4 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 3 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 2 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
  C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 216
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2.              Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.             Of the new cases, 98% are linked to known clusters,
while the rest are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4.             In the past week (13 June to 19 June), MOH has uncovered
links for 7 previously unlinked cases.
5.             Further epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases.
Please refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.             765 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been
discharged from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all,
34,224 have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged
from hospitals or community care facilities.
7.             There are currently 185 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 7,398 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
20 JUNE 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
