Additional measures for travellers to reduce further importation of
COVID-19 cases



ADDITIONAL MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS TO REDUCE FURTHER IMPORTATION OF COVID-19 CASES


Published Date: 18 Mar 2020

          In view of the heightened risk of importation of COVID-19
cases into Singapore, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce will implement
additional measures for all travellers entering Singapore.
2.        Globally, there has been a sharp increase in cases and
widening spread across the world. To date, there are close to 200,000
COVID-19 cases across 159 countries, and more than 7,900 deaths. Many
countries have seen an exponential rise in cases recently, and more than
40,000 new cases have been reported in the past three days. Globally the
number of cases and deaths has surpassed those in China since the
beginning of the outbreak. The World Health Organization has urged its
member states to take urgent and aggressive measures to stop the
transmission of COVID-19.
3.        In Singapore, over the past three days[1], about 70 percent of
our new COVID-19 cases were imported, most of whom were Singapore
residents and long-term pass holders returning to Singapore after travel
abroad.
SINGAPOREANS ADVISED TO DEFER ALL TRAVEL ABROAD
4.        In view of the heightened risk of further importation of
COVID-19 to Singapore, Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel
abroad with immediate effect. This supercedes our earlier advisory
announced on 15 March to defer all non-essential travel abroad.[2] The
expansion of the travel advisory is to reduce the risk of Singaporeans
being infected with the virus when abroad, and spreading it to other
Singaporeans when they return.
14-DAY STAY-HOME NOTICE FOR ALL TRAVELLERS
5.        To further reduce the risk of further importation leading to
community spread in Singapore, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce will put in
place additional measures for all travellers entering Singapore. From 20
March 2020, 2359 hours, all Singaporeans, Permanent Residents, Long Term
Pass holders and short term visitors entering Singapore will be issued a
14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN).[3] They will have to provide proof of the
place where they will serve the 14-day SHN, for example a hotel booking
covering the entire period, or a place of residence they or their family
members own.
6.        As announced previously, short-term visitors with recent
travel history to mainland China, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Republic
of Korea and Spain, are not allowed to enter or transit in Singapore.
7.        For the land crossings with Malaysia, there are already
restrictions imposed by Malaysia under their Movement Control Order. The
Singapore-Malaysia Special Working Committee (co-chaired by Senior
Minister and Coordinating Minister for National Security Teo Chee Hean,
and Malaysian Senior Minister and Minister of Defence Dato' Sri Ismail
Sabri Yaakob and Johor Menteri Besar Datuk Ir. Hasni Mohammad) are
discussing a joint mitigation plan to ensure the safe and sustainable
movement of people, goods and services between the two countries. More
details will be announced when ready.
8.        Persons under SHN will have to remain in their place of
residence at all times for 14 days after entering Singapore.
9.        The existing measures which apply to all inbound travellers,
such as requiring those who exhibit fever and/or other symptoms of
respiratory illness to undergo a COVID-19 swab test at the checkpoints,
will continue to apply.
10.       Singapore’s measures for inbound travellers in relation to
COVID-19, including the new ones announced in this press statement, are
summarised in the Annex.
11.       As Singapore’s measures will evolve according to the global
situation, Singaporeans should check the MOH website
(https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19) for the latest measures.

 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] As of 18 March, 12pm.

[2] Singaporeans are also advised to defer all travel to Hubei province
(mainland China).

[3] The SHN will not apply to travellers transiting in Singapore without
leaving the transit area.
