More Than Half of Private Ambulances Accredited Under Voluntary
Accreditation Scheme



MORE THAN HALF OF PRIVATE AMBULANCES ACCREDITED UNDER VOLUNTARY ACCREDITATION SCHEME


Published Date: 16 Jan 2020

  To enhance patient care and help providers transit to the new
Healthcare Services Act (HCSA) which will come into effect between early
2021 and end 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) introduced the Voluntary
Accreditation Scheme (VAS) for private ambulance operators in January
2018. To date, 30 operators have met the standards stipulated under the
VAS. These constitute more than 50 percent of the total private
ambulances in Singapore.
2.  Under the new HCSA, private ambulance services will be licensed
to ensure the safety and safeguard the welfare of patients. Private
ambulance services will be regulated as either Emergency Ambulance
Service [1] or Medical Transport Service [2], and licensed under HCSA in
its second phase of implementation in the second half of 2021.
3.  MOH’s priority is to ensure that patient safety and welfare are
not compromised in the provision of healthcare services. Even before
2021 when the new licensing framework for private ambulances comes into
effect, MOH has been taking a progressive approach to raise the
capabilities and competencies of the sector, in preparation for the new
licensing scheme in HCSA:
a) MOH released a set of standards in 2017 [3], so that private
ambulance operators have clarity on the requirements to provide an
appropriate level of safe clinical care to patients using private
ambulance services. These standards include the defining of core
competencies, capabilities and training requirements for different
ambulance crew members, as well as the mandating of essential
documentation, equipment, medications, and life-saving and infection
control protocols.
b) The VAS was introduced in 2018 to facilitate the private ambulance
operators’ transition into HCSA. Operators assessed to have met MOH’s
2017 standards for ambulance services can be accredited under the VAS.
Accredited operators must continue to adhere to the level of safety
standards listed in MOH’s standards ahead of the HCSA regulations for
ambulance operators coming into force.
4.  As part of the VAS application process, MOH conducts preliminary
assessments on the ambulance personnel and vehicles, and provides
on-site assistance to help private ambulance operators meet the safety
and quality standards necessary for accreditation. We have also
partnered training institutions like the Alice Lee Institute of Advanced
Nursing, Institute of Technical Education and Nanyang Polytechnic to
offer training programmes for ambulance personnel to learn or upgrade
their skills to meet the crew requirements under the new standards.
5.  MOH will also bring about greater price transparency for
consumers. To do this, MOH will work with the accredited operators to
publish the range of common fees charged, so that consumers are able to
make informed decisions on their choice of private ambulance operators.
6.  Moving forward, MOH will continue to engage the private ambulance
operators and encourage remaining operators to come on board the VAS.
The list of VAS-accredited private ambulance operators can be found on
the MOH website for the public’s reference.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 JANUARY 2020
[1] Emergency Ambulance Service means a service to transport, by land,
any individual suffering, or believed to be suffering, from an injury or
condition of acute or sudden onset and of an emergency nature.
[2] Medical Transport Service means a ground conveyance that is used or
intended to be used for the transport of patient(s) who is being
provided with non-emergency clinical care or monitoring en-route.
[3] MOH Standards for Emergency Ambulance Services (2017) can be found
on the MOH website at
https://www.moh.gov.sg/licensing-and-regulation/regulations-guidelines-and-circulars/details/moh-standards-for-emergency-ambulance-service-(2017)-updated-21-nov-2018.
