972 More Cases Discharged; 518 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



972 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 518 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 31 May 2020

     As of 31 May 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified an additional 518 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore.
The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0

There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 2 (2 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents [1])

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing for the 2 community cases
today, both of whom are currently unlinked.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 6 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 4 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 2 per day in the past two weeks. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 516

We continue to pick up many cases amongst Work Permit holders residing
in dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.     Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.     MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the Institute
of Mental Health (10 Buangkok View) for the past two incubation periods
(i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.
5.     MOH has been undertaking surveillance tests in nursing homes to
allow us to detect any infections in the homes as early as possible. We
have completed one round of surveillance swab tests for all nursing home
staff and residents on 8 May and 30 May respectively. Out of about
13,200 residents who were tested, all results were negative except for 4
residents of Orange Valley Nursing Home, as announced on 21 May. Out of
about 9,000 nursing home staff, only one from Ren Ci @ Ang Mo Kio had
tested positive, as announced on 8 May.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
6.     In the past week (24 May to 30 May), MOH has uncovered links for
2 previously unlinked cases.
7.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
8.     972 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 21,699 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
9.     There are currently 321 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 8 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,841 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 23 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
31 MAY 2020



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Updated from the afternoon press release as one case had been
re-classified following contact tracing.
