Additional Precautionary Measures to Minimise Risk of Community Spread
in Singapore



ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO MINIMISE RISK OF COMMUNITY SPREAD IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 28 Jan 2020

BACKGROUND

1.        The three latest confirmed cases over the past 24 hours
indicate that the trend of infection among the population of Chinese
nationals from Hubei province in Singapore is accelerating. All of the
confirmed cases in Singapore thus far are Chinese nationals from Hubei.
2.        This is similar to what is being observed elsewhere, including
in other Chinese cities outside Hubei. According to the PRC
authorities, 95 per cent of confirmed cases in Chinese cities were
recently in Hubei, confirming that the infection has spread most widely
in that province.
3.        We expect to see more confirmed cases arising from this group
in Singapore. While there is currently no evidence of community spread
here, this group poses a heightened risk to Singapore. Therefore the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce on the Wuhan coronavirus has decided to take
further steps to limit the risk that travellers to Hubei pose to
Singapore.
RECENT TRAVELLERS FROM HUBEI ALREADY IN SINGAPORE
4.        As the Taskforce announced yesterday, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) is contacting all recent travellers from Hubei province who are in
Singapore. MOH estimates that about 2,000 such persons have arrived here
in the last two weeks, of whom roughly 1,000 are on short-term visas.
5.        MOH will assess who among this group are at higher risk and
will place them under quarantine.

a.     Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and foreigners on
long-term visas will be quarantined at home or other suitable
facilities.
b.     Those on short-term visas will be housed at Government Quarantine
Facilities.

RETURNING RESIDENTS AND LONG-TERM PASS HOLDERS – EITHER WITH TRAVEL
HISTORY IN HUBEI OR WITH PRC PASSPORTS ISSUED IN HUBEI

6.        The following returning groups will be quarantined at home or
other suitable facilities:

a.     Residents (Singaporean Citizens/ PRs) with recent Hubei travel
history within the last 14 days;
b.     Long-term pass holders (including Work Passes and Permits,
Student Pass, Dependent Pass and Long-term Visit Pass) with recent Hubei
travel history within the last 14 days; and
c.     PRs and long-term pass holders with PRC passports issued in
Hubei.

7.        Quarantine orders have legal force, with severe penalties for
non-compliance.
NEW VISITORS WITH TRAVEL HISTORY IN HUBEI OR WITH PRC PASSPORTS ISSUED
IN HUBEI
8.        From 29 January 2020, 12pm, all new visitors with recent Hubei
travel history within the last 14 days, or those with PRC passports
issued in Hubei, will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.
9.        The Immigration and Checkpoints Authority (ICA) will suspend
the issuance of all forms of new visas to those with PRC passports
issued in Hubei with immediate effect.
10.       Previously issued short-term and multiple-visit visas, as well
as visa-free transit facilities, for those with PRC passports issued in
Hubei, will also be suspended with immediate effect. During this period
of suspension, they will not be allowed entry into Singapore.
REMAINING CAUTIOUS AND CALM
11.       There is so far no evidence of community spread in Singapore.
However there is international evidence of growing infection among Hubei
residents and those who have visited the province. We are therefore
taking further precautions to reduce the risk of community spread in
Singapore, and to protect Singaporeans. The Taskforce will continue to
monitor the situation and take further steps as needed, depending on how
the situation develops.
12.       Meanwhile, Singaporeans can play their part by being socially
responsible and practising good personal hygiene habits. Singaporeans
are reminded to wash their hands regularly. Those who are unwell should
wear a mask and see a doctor immediately. However, there is no general
necessity to wear a mask if you are well.
13.       We urge Singaporeans to remain calm, and to refer to official
sources such as the MOH website or subscribe to the gov.sg WhatsApp, to
get the latest updates on the situation.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
28 JANUARY 2020
