Tracetogether and Safeentry to Be Enhanced In Preparation for Further
Opening of the Economy



TRACETOGETHER AND SAFEENTRY TO BE ENHANCED IN PREPARATION FOR FURTHER OPENING OF THE ECONOMY


Published Date: 09 Sep 2020

         The TraceTogether (TT) Programme has helped to raise the speed
and effectiveness of our contact tracing. We will commence nation-wide
distribution of TT Tokens starting from 14 September and aim to complete
the distribution by November. This will enable more Singapore residents
to be protected by the TT Programme, particularly the elderly who may
not have a suitable smart phone to operate the App.
2     We will enhance SafeEntry to work more closely with TT. For
certain venues with higher-risk activities such as larger-scale
business-to-business events, SafeEntry will require the TT App or Token
to check in. Supplementing SafeEntry with proximity data from TT will
enhance safety for participants, as they will be ensured of coverage
under the TT Programme. This “TT-only SafeEntry” will first be piloted
at selected venues, and will be expanded over time once the national
distribution of the TT Tokens is well underway.
3        From 10 September, a new Self-Check service and SMS service
will be launched so that people can be alerted if they have visited the
same venues at the same time as COVID-19 cases. Both services will be
based on individuals’ SafeEntry records.
4        These measures will support the further opening of the economy
by ensuring more effective contact tracing for the community.
TT PROGRAMME HAS AUGMENTED THE CONTACT TRACING PROCESS
5       The TT Programme – comprising the TT App on smart phones and the
TT Token – provides the initial list of close contacts of COVID-19
positive cases. Together with SafeEntry and associated digital systems,
the TT Programme has enabled the contact tracing teams to reduce the
time taken to identify and quarantine a close contact, from 4 days to
less than 2 days currently. TT has also expanded the coverage of contact
tracing, and has reduced the possibility of a close contact being
inadvertently left out of quarantine.
TT TOKEN DISTRIBUTION TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC TO START FROM 14 SEP 2020
6         The first batch of TT Tokens was distributed to 10,000
vulnerable seniors from 28-30 June. In a survey conducted by the Silver
Generation Office, close to 90% of the recipients found it convenient to
carry the Token with them when they leave home, and more than 70% would
bring the Token out most of the time.
7         Over the next few months, the Government will begin
nation-wide distribution of TT Tokens to the general public at community
sites. As the elderly are at greater health risk from COVID-19, and are
also less likely to own a smart phone, distribution of the Tokens will
begin at communities with higher concentrations of elderly. Distribution
will start in the Jalan Besar and Tanjong Pagar regions, at 20 community
centres/clubs (CCs) from 14 September 2020 .
8      The distribution exercise will be progressively extended
throughout Singapore, according to the tentative schedule listed in
Annex A. As the actual distribution progresses, scheduled dates might be
adjusted. Residents can go to the TokenGoWhere website
(https://token.gowhere.gov.sg) to find the latest schedule and locate a
site convenient for them. Residents can also refer to community notice
boards, digital display panels, or their local CC social media channels
for more information on the distribution exercise. Those who do not mind
travelling further and wish to collect the Token earlier can visit any
of the sites listed on the TokenGoWhere website to do so.
9        Besides the elderly, individuals who do not have a smart phone
on which to download the TT App will benefit from using the Token. The
Tokens also provide an option for those who prefer a separate device to
contribute to the national effort to support digital contact tracing,
rather than downloading the App on their phone.
10        More details about the TT Token can be found in Annex B.
TRACETOGETHER-ONLY SAFEENTRY CHECK-IN FOR DESIGNATED PLACES
11       Since 3 July 2020, GovTech has updated the TT App to enable the
App to be used for SafeEntry check-in by scanning the QR code of the
activity or venue through the App.
12      Starting from October 2020, larger-scale business-to-business
(B2B) events such as meetings and conferences that are being piloted
will require all participants to have a TT App or Token to conduct
SafeEntry check-in. SNDGG and MOH will work with the event organisers to
ensure that TT Tokens are available on-site for distribution and
registration for individuals without the TT App. This was trialled at
the first MICE pilot event held at the end of August which was attended
physically by Singapore-based attendees, and virtually by international
attendees.
13     Beyond the B2B events, more activities and venues would
progressively trial TT-only SafeEntry to make such activities safer for
the rest of Singapore by reducing the risk of onward spread, and
facilitating future relaxations where possible. These are settings where
there may be close interaction among attendees, where masks may not be
worn at all times due to the nature of the activities, and/or where
there is high human traffic that is harder to monitor. This would
include venues such as hotels (e.g. for wedding functions), F&B outlets,
cinemas, gyms and certain workplaces. As such settings have the
potential to spark off large outbreaks from a single positive COVID-19
case that spread beyond the activity or venue, the use of TT can
facilitate rapid and comprehensive contact tracing to stem onward
spread.
14        To give the public time and opportunity to collect the Token,
we will first implement TT-only SafeEntry at a few selected venues
(where TT Tokens will be distributed on-site for those who need them).
We will progressively expand TT-only SafeEntry to other venues only
after the national distribution of the TT Tokens is well underway. We
are also working with the private sector who are interested in supplying
contact tracing tokens to companies, to ensure that these Tokens and the
national TT Token can mutually detect one another and contribute to a
unified contact tracing ecosystem.
15       Where TT-only SafeEntry is implemented, SafeEntry check-in must
be performed either by (a) scanning the activity or venue QR code using
the TT App on your mobile phone; or (b) having the activity organisers
or venue staff scan the unique QR code on the TT Token registered to
you.
16       GovTech will also be testing new solutions that can help
increase the convenience and improve the user experience of TT-only
SafeEntry.
NEW SERVICE LAUNCHED FOR PUBLIC TO SELF-MONITOR HEALTH BASED ON
SAFEENTRY RECORDS
17     MOH currently publishes a list of public locations visited by
COVID-19 cases during their infectious period.
18       Responding to public feedback, we will introduce a SafeEntry
Location Matching Self-Check service for individuals to check whether
they have been in close proximity to COVID-19 cases, based on their own
SafeEntry records. This Self-Check service will be available on an
updated version of the TT App that is available from 10 September.
Individuals can also access the Self-Check service via SingPass Mobile,
or at https://wereyouthere.safeentry.gov.sg (with SingPass login).
19        In addition, SMS notification alerts will be sent to a smaller
group of individuals who were at locations that are assessed to pose a
higher risk of transmission, such as dining places and gyms where people
do not wear masks for extended periods of time. Those whose SafeEntry
check-in and check-out timings overlap with the COVID-19 case in such
locations will receive an SMS alert. The SMS notification service will
begin from 10 September.
20    To ensure the accuracy of the Self-Check service and SMS service,
we need businesses to provide accurate SafeEntry address records,
including postal codes. Individuals are reminded to provide updated
phone numbers for their TT App (or SingPass Mobile/ SafeEntry QR
webform, as the case may be). Individuals should check-in and check-out
of locations promptly using SafeEntry to avoid any erroneous
notifications from these 2 services. This also helps our contact tracers
more accurately establish links and transmission chains. Please refer to
Annex C for details on who will receive the targeted SMS, and who will
be able to access SafeEntry records for the Self-Check service.
21       The above measures and features will help prepare us for the
further reopening of our economy and society. By actively participating
in the TT Programme and using SafeEntry, we can all play our part to
stay ahead of the pandemic and keep ourselves and our loved ones safe.
