Safeguarding Lives and Livelihoods



SAFEGUARDING LIVES AND LIVELIHOODS


Published Date: 10 Nov 2020

        As we continue on our journey towards Phase Three, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce will continue to build on our efforts to enable
the public and businesses to resume normal activities as much as
possible, within safe limits. We aim to safeguard both lives and
livelihoods, and will seek to buffer the social and economic impact of
the pandemic on Singaporeans, even as we strive to protect Singaporeans
from the risk of COVID-19 infection.
2.      With the cooperation of Singaporeans and businesses, we have
brought the situation under control and kept community transmission low.
Singaporeans have supported the comprehensive set of border, community
and healthcare measures laid out by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce as
Singapore emerged from the Circuit Breaker. We have regularly reviewed
and adjusted the measures in line with the latest circumstances and
scientific evidence, and in preparation for subsequent steps forward.
RE-OPENING BORDERS SAFELY THROUGH RISK-MANAGED CONTROLS AND TESTING
PROTOCOLS
3.       We need to re-open our borders safely to safeguard our aviation
hub status which is essential to many of our businesses, our jobs and
our future. Beyond supporting our businesses to resume activities and
protect jobs, re-opening our borders is also critical to supporting our
social and community needs, such as allowing families to reunite and
facilitating the entry of foreign domestic workers who help to care for
our loved ones.
ADOPTING A RISK-MANAGED APPROACH IN BORDER CONTROL MEASURES
4.       In re-opening our borders, we must do so safely so that we can
facilitate more travel while minimising the impact on public health. We
recognise that different countries/ regions are at different stages of
putting in place effective systems to control the spread of COVID-19. We
have therefore taken a risk-managed approach to our border controls,
based on the assessed risk of importation and onward transmission in the
community.
5.   Lower-risk countries/regions. These countries/ regions are
assessed to have a lower incidence of COVID-19 and comprehensive
measures in place to detect and keep community spread at bay. Travellers
from these countries/regions are either required to take a COVID-19 test
upon arrival in lieu of a Stay-Home Notice (SHN) , or required to serve
a 7-day SHN  at their place of residence with a COVID-19 test
administered at the end of their SHN.
6.     Higher-risk countries/regions. Travellers from higher-risk
countries/ regions are subject to more stringent measures including a
14-day SHN at home  or at dedicated SHN facilities, with a COVID-19 test
administered at the end of their SHN. We minimise the risk of community
spread from such COVID-positive travellers as they are isolated during
their potentially infectious period.
7.      We have also allowed selected groups of travellers to enter on
Green/ Fast Lane arrangements for essential business, official or work
purposes. They are not isolated under SHN, but we manage the risk
through strict quotas, and by requiring them to undergo COVID-19 tests
before departure and upon arrival, and to follow a strict controlled
itinerary limiting interactions with the wider community for the first
14 days.
IMPLEMENTING PRE-DEPARTURE TESTING FOR INBOUND TRAVELLERS
8.       To reduce the risks of importation, we have required travellers
who are not Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents, and who have
recent travel history to India, Indonesia and the Philippines, to
present a valid negative COVID-19 Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test
to enter or transfer through Singapore. To further reduce importation
risk from similarly high-risk countries/regions, from 17 November 2020
2359 hours, all inbound travellers who are not Singapore Citizens or
Permanent Residents, except those from lower-risk countries/ regions ,
will need to take a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours before departure.
These travellers will still be required to serve their SHN upon arrival
in Singapore and be tested at the end of their SHN.
9.       Singapore’s border measures will evolve as the global situation
changes. If the situation in a country/region deteriorates, more
stringent measures will be put in place to limit the risk of importation
and prevent community transmission from imported cases. Similarly, if
the situation in a country/region improves, we will consider relaxing
our border health measures to facilitate travel. We encourage everyone
to check the Safe Travel website (https://safetravel.ica.gov.sg)
regularly for the latest updates. All travellers will be subject to the
prevailing border measures upon entry, including staying in dedicated
SHN facilities at the traveller’s cost, where applicable.
RE-OPENING COMMUNITY SAFELY WITH ENHANCED TESTING, SAFE MANAGEMENT, AND
CONTACT TRACING
10.      Globally, many countries are continuing to see a high number of
new infections. Locally, we have kept community transmission low, but
the virus has not been eradicated. As we progressively re-open our
borders and resume more social and economic activities in Phase Three,
we should expect to see the number of cases increase, beyond the current
single digits or even low teens each day. This is why we need to double
down on our surveillance and testing efforts to nip the seeds of
transmission  to prevent further spread. And because there will still
always be the possibility of asymptomatic or undetected cases among us,
a strong set of safe management measures and a comprehensive
test-trace-isolate system are key to keeping the virus under control and
avoiding the number of cases spiralling out of control.
MAKING COVID-19 TESTING MORE ACCESSIBLE
11.     Testing is a key enabler. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce regularly
reviews our testing strategies to ensure COVID-19 testing is conducted
widely and aggressively as required, for public health and in settings
or sectors where there are higher risks.
12.      To support a larger range of needs as we resume more economic
and community activities, we will now make COVID-19 testing more
accessible for all. From 30 November 2020 2359hrs, any company or
individual who requires a PCR test will be able to procure such services
from approved providers. This includes individuals who require
pre-departure testing. Individuals will no longer be required to seek
approval from MOH for pre-departure tests.
13.    There are currently around 600 clinics and providers that can
provide PCR testing. Laboratories, clinics and swab service providers
who are interested to provide such COVID-19 testing services at
premises, beyond a licensed clinic / laboratory / hospital premise, can
apply for an off-site COVID-19 testing application at
https://go.gov.sg/offsitecovid19swab. The list of clinics and providers
approved to provide COVID-19 testing at off-site locations can be found
on https://go.gov.sg/covid19pcrtestproviders. We will continue to
increase the number of clinics and providers who can administer the
COVID-19 PCR tests.
14.      We are also conducting pilots on pre-event testing using
antigen rapid tests (ARTs) to enable more large-scale and higher-risk
activities to resume in a safer manner. We have conducted a number of
pilots, such as at the Singapore International Energy Week and the ONE
Championship Mixed Martial Arts events last month. We will continue to
pilot different workflows in different settings, and will provide more
details on requirements for pre-event testing when ready.
SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
15.      The most important enabler is safe management. By keeping our
social groups small, maintaining safe distancing and exercising social
responsibility, we are all contributing to the nationwide effort to
prevent spread. With such measures in place, even if there is a
COVID-positive case at any event or activity, the risk of spreading to a
large number of people is limited, which will slow down the rate of
transmission and therefore decrease the risk of large clusters forming.
CONTACT TRACING
16.      While testing and safe management can help to mitigate spread,
it is not foolproof. This is where a strengthened contact tracing regime
incorporating both SafeEntry and TraceTogether is important. By quickly
identifying and isolating the close contacts of any COVID-positive
person, we can limit the number of further infections. SafeEntry and
TraceTogether are complementary tools that work together to ringfence
cases and identify potential clusters. We encourage everyone to download
and use the TraceTogether App or collect a TraceTogether Token for use
at TraceTogether-only SafeEntry (ToS) premises, when ToS is implemented.
ToS will only be enforced after everyone who prefers to use the
TraceTogether Token has had the chance to collect one at a Community
Centre/Club (CC) in their constituency. Please refer to the TokenGoWhere
website (https://token.gowhere.gov.sg) for the latest schedule for token
collection at your constituency’s collection point. For those who prefer
the TraceTogether App, please ensure that you have updated to the latest
version of the App.
17.     Venues required to enforce SafeEntry check-ins for all its
public customers and visitors are also progressively implementing the
Token check-in method. We will work with venues to implement these
SafeEntry check-ins for TraceTogether Token users. This will also
facilitate a smooth transition to ToS later.
ENSURING ACCESS TO VACCINES WHEN AVAILABLE

18.   There are various COVID-19 vaccines currently under development
and entering clinical trials globally. Different vaccinations may confer
varying degrees of protection against a disease, and work in conjunction
with other preventive measures such as safe management and contact
tracing, to prevent further disease transmission in Singapore.
19.      Singapore has been actively monitoring the global progress in
COVID-19 vaccine development, and has taken steps to secure access for
our population amidst expected strong global demand. We are a strong
supporter and active participant in driving the work of the global
COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) Facility. Co-led by Gavi the
Vaccine Alliance, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness (CEPI) and the
World Health Organization (WHO), this global collaboration enables
countries to pool risk and resources to gain accelerated access to a
portfolio of vaccines from different vaccine developers. To date, there
are 186 participants of the COVAX Facility which represent over 85% of
the world’s population.
20.      On top of our efforts through the COVAX Facility, we have
further broadened and diversified our COVID-19 vaccine portfolio with a
number of pharmaceutical companies that use different technologies for
their vaccines, and in different phases of clinical trials. Not all of
these vaccines will succeed, nor be suitable, safe and efficacious for
all segments of our population. Our proactive efforts to secure a broad
and diversified vaccine portfolio will improve our chances of securing a
suitable vaccine for Singapore.
21.     The safety of Singaporeans is a top priority in all our
vaccination efforts. To ensure the safe and efficacious use of the
vaccines in our population, MOH has set up an Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination, comprising experts in infectious diseases,
immunology, and other relevant fields, to closely monitor the vaccine
clinical trials data as they become available globally, to advise on the
suitability, safety and efficacy of the COVID-19 vaccines and to
recommend the vaccination approach for the different segments of our
population. Only vaccines that are assessed to be relatively safe and
efficacious will be offered to the relevant population segments.
22.      Meanwhile, we will continue to closely track the progress of
the different vaccine candidates under development globally in the next
few months, and will provide further updates on our plans.
EMERGING STRONGER TOGETHER
23.     The road ahead remains long. We must not let our guard down and
become lax in adherence to safe management measures, as doing so could
result in a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, putting all our sacrifices
thus far to waste. While we are in a much better position today than we
were earlier in the year, we must not be complacent. Should there be a
spike in cases, we need to respond swiftly and decisively together to
keep the virus under control. As we journey ahead into Phase Three and
beyond, let us continue to support one another so that we can emerge
stronger together.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
10 NOVEMBER 2020
