Concord International Hospital Ordered to Temporarily Stop the Provision
of Healthcare Services Due to Regulatory Lapses



CONCORD INTERNATIONAL HOSPITAL ORDERED TO TEMPORARILY STOP THE PROVISION OF HEALTHCARE SERVICES DUE TO REGULATORY LAPSES


Published Date: 26 Dec 2020

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) has ordered Concord International
Hospital (19 Adam Road) to temporarily stop the provision of all
healthcare services with effect from 19 December 2020, after inspections
revealed that the Hospital had failed to abide by the Private Hospitals
and Medical Clinics (PHMC) Act in several areas which would have an
impact to patient safety.
2.      Inspections carried out by MOH on Concord International Hospital
from 14 to 16 December revealed that the Hospital had several
significant lapses. Multiple life-saving/ patient use equipment and
medications were either not maintained or not available in the critical
areas of the Hospital such as the Intensive Care Unit and the Operating
Theatre. There was also a lack of quality control in the laboratory and
infection control processes, which poses significant risks to patient
safety and well-being.
3.    Concord International Hospital has temporarily stopped the
provision of healthcare services and MOH is working closely with the
Hospital to review its lapses and processes. As of 19 December, Concord
International Hospital had on-going outpatient medical appointments with
four patients, and there were no patients warded at the Hospital. MOH
has informed Concord International Hospital to work with their medical
team to review the treatment plans and ensure the proper continuity of
outpatient care for these four  patients, until the Hospital has
addressed all regulatory lapses and MOH has assessed that the Hospital
is ready for operations again.
4.     MOH would like to remind all private and public sector healthcare
facilities, such as hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and clinical
laboratories currently licensed under the PHMC Act, to fully comply with
the Act at all times, to ensure that safety and quality of clinical care
are met at all times. All licensed premises are subject to regular and
ad-hoc inspections and audits to ensure compliance to the Act. MOH will
not hesitate to take enforcement action against healthcare facilities
that fail to comply with the relevant regulatory requirements, which may
include a fine of up to $20,000 and/or a revocation of the licence.
5.     Moving forward, all healthcare facilities will be licensed under
the new Healthcare Services Act from the second half of 2021. The new
Act will further strengthen governance and regulatory conformance across
various healthcare services to ensure continued delivery of safe care to
patients in an evolving healthcare landscape.
6.      Patients who are currently seeking care at Concord International
Hospital are advised to speak with their existing medical practitioners
in charge of their clinical care to discuss alternative care plans at
the other licensed healthcare facilities for the time being. Those who
intend to seek medical care in the Hospital are also advised to do so
at  alternative licensed healthcare facilities for the time being.
Affected patients who have queries may also reach MOH via
MOH_QSM@moh.gov.sg.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 DECEMBER 2020
