93 More Cases Discharged, 34 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



93 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 34 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 05 Sep 2020

1. As of 5 September 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 34 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES
All new cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance.

++
|  |
++
|  |
++
|  |
++
|  |
++

A) IMPORTED CASES: 2 (2 Singaporeans)
Both imported cases are Singaporeans who returned to Singapore from
Australia on 25 August and India on 24 August. They had been placed on
14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and had been
tested while serving their SHN.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 3 (1 Singaporean, 2 Work Permit holders)
Of the 3 cases in the community, 2 were picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and 1 had already been isolated
earlier. All 3 cases are asymptomatic, and were detected through our
proactive testing.
All 3 cases in the community are currently unlinked. Of these, 2 (Cases
57079 and 57098) were detected as a result of our Rostered Routine
Testing of workers in the construction, marine and process sectors who
are living outside the dormitories. The remaining case (Case 57082) had
travelled to Malaysia but was denied entry at the airport due to
administrative reasons. He had been tested negative while in Malaysia,
and placed on SHN at a dedicated facility upon arrival in Singapore the
next day. He was subsequently tested positive while serving his SHN.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 2 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 3 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We
will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases
detected through our surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 29
Amongst the 29 cases residing in dormitories, 14 had been identified
earlier as contacts of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. They were tested during quarantine to
determine their status.
The remaining 15 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such
as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in
dormitories. This allows us to pick up cases early, including
asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to
prevent further transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and
isolating the close contacts.
Besides the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test, we have also conducted
serological tests to determine if some of these cases are current or
past infections.¹ The serological test results for 8 cases have come
back positive so far, which indicate likely past infections.
2. Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex A for
the summary of the confirmed cases.
3. Of the new cases, 88% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4. Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5. 93 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 56,267 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
6. There are currently 50 confirmed cases who are still in hospital. Of
these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive care
unit. 638 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These are
those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.
[1] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
5 SEPTEMBER 2020

