Second Joint Statement by MOH, MPA and STB: Precautionary Measures taken
for Cruise Ship’s Scheduled Call at Singapore



SECOND JOINT STATEMENT BY MOH, MPA AND STB: PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TAKEN FOR CRUISE SHIP’S SCHEDULED CALL AT SINGAPORE


Published Date: 10 Mar 2020

At 0600 hrs on Tuesday, 10 March 2020, Costa Fortuna submitted its
Maritime Declaration of Health. The ship declared that none of its
passengers and crew on board are febrile or have exhibited other
symptoms of respiratory illness. The ship was allowed to berth at 0800
hrs as scheduled. The penalty for false declaration includes up to six
months’ imprisonment.

2  Passengers started to disembark at around 0900 hrs. As at 1200
hrs, more than 600 passengers have disembarked. Costa Fortuna has
informed that all passengers and crew are well and had been checked by
the ship doctor. Upon disembarkation, they were further subjected to
thermal and visual screenings by MOH-licensed healthcare providers.
Passengers  have been bussed directly to the airport for their onward
flights or to their hotels. Almost all foreign passengers will depart
Singapore within the next two days.

3  All passengers who had recent travel history to affected regions
within the last 14 days, have completed enhanced one-on-one screening by
doctors licensed by the MOH and have been certified fit to travel. These
passengers had entered Singapore and boarded Costa Fortuna prior to the
implementation of the travel ban and/or advisory[1] on 4 March, 2359
hrs. These passengers will stay onboard the ship and will be facilitated
directly to the airport for their onward flights.

4  Since 24 January 2020, MPA has implemented temperature screening
at all sea checkpoints, including cruise terminals, for all arriving
passengers and crew. The cruise terminal operators have also implemented
centralised outbound temperature screening for departing passengers with
effect from 8 February 2020. Cruise lines also disinfect their ships
in-between sailings.

ISSUED BY:

Ministry of Health

Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore

Singapore Tourism Board

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Passengers with recent travel history to affected regions will be
disallowed to enter or transit through Singapore
