Circuit Breaker to Minimise Further Spread of Covid-19



CIRCUIT BREAKER TO MINIMISE FURTHER SPREAD OF COVID-19


Published Date: 03 Apr 2020

          The Multi-Ministry Taskforce will be implementing an elevated
set of safe distancing measures, as a circuit breaker to pre-empt the
trend of increasing local transmission of COVID-19. The aim is to reduce
much more significantly movements and interactions in public and private
places. To do this, we will move towards full home-based learning for
our schools and close most physical workplace premises, save for those
providing essential services and in selected economic sectors which are
critical for our local and the global supply chains. Work and business
activities that can be carried out via telecommuting from home should
continue.
2.            The Taskforce has reviewed the latest evidence and pattern
of transmission of COVID-19 in Singapore. Most of the cases have arisen
from persons coming into close contact with an infected individual in
social, workplace and family settings. The Taskforce is very concerned
by the increasing number of locally transmitted cases in the past week.
It has concluded that we must make a decisive move at this point, to
curb the spread of the infection. We require the cooperation of all
Singaporeans to minimise movements and interactions in public and
private places, and stay home unless necessary for essential purposes.
3.            These heightened safe distancing measures will be in place
for four weeks (i.e. two incubation cycles) from 7 April 2020 until 4
May 2020 (inclusive). Entities that are able to comply immediately are
strongly encouraged to do so. Current safe distancing measures on
capacity limits and physical separation remain in force and must be
strictly complied with, especially over the weekend.

SERVICES THAT REMAIN OPEN TO SUPPORT DAILY NEEDS
4.            From 7 April 2020, all restaurants, hawker centres,
coffeeshops, food courts and other food and beverage outlets will remain
open only for takeaway or delivery. Food suppliers – including food and
food ingredient production, food manufacturing, food processing,
abattoirs/ slaughterhouses, food caterers, importers and traders, and
food logistics, cold stores/ warehouses, food safety testing,
supermarkets, convenience stores, grocery retailers, wholesale markets
and wet markets – will remain open. The public can be assured of the
continued availability of food items.
5.            Retail outlets that provide items and services necessary
to support the daily living needs of the population will remain open.
Specific outlets in the malls will remain open for this purpose. These
include supermarkets, pharmacies, restaurants, food and beverage
outlets, and other outlets offering essential services. All other
physical retail outlets shall be closed.
6.            The Public Service will be fully operational and
government services will be available, but with the majority of the
public service workforce telecommuting. Physical counter services will
be scaled down, with reduced staff manning for safe distancing, but
digital services will continue to be available. Residents can continue
to use e-services but are advised to defer any non-urgent visits.
7.            Essential services like healthcare, social services,
financial services, cleaning services, and water, energy, and
environment related services will also continue to operate. Other
selected services required for daily living (e.g. hairdressers/ barbers,
lift maintenance, laundry), transport services, and telecommunications
services will remain open.
8.            Please refer to
https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/essentialservices for the latest and
most updated list of essential activities that will be allowed to
continue to operate.

CLOSURE OF WORKPLACE PREMISES
9.            Many workplaces, including all public service agencies,
have already implemented telecommuting arrangements for a sizeable
proportion of their employees. The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) has also
stepped up inspections and issued Stop Work Orders or Remedial Orders to
firms that have failed to follow MOM advisories on telecommuting[1] .
10.          However, further actions are necessary to reduce even more
the proportion of our workforce who commute for work. All business,
social, or other activities that cannot be conducted through
telecommuting from home will be suspended from 7 April 2020 to 4 May
2020 (inclusive). Essential Services and their related supply chains, as
well as entities that form a part of the global supply chain, are
exempted from the suspension.
11.          Entities providing essential services will need to operate
with the minimum staff needed on their premises[2] to ensure the
continued running of those services, and implement strict safe
distancing measures. Social interactions, including during meal times,
must be avoided. These firms may be required to suspend their operations
should any of their staff working on the premises become infected.
12.          Employers that are able to continue to operate their
businesses (in limited or full capacity) with their employees working
from home should continue to do so.
13.          Entities which carry out activities listed on the
above-mentioned website (see paragraph 8 for hyperlink) are permitted to
continue to operate from their premises. They are required to submit
details of their plans to operate with enhanced safe distancing measures
in place at https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg by end of 13 April 2020.
They may continue to perform their essential services while waiting for
our response. Entities which are not performing services listed but
believe they have strong grounds for exemption from the suspension
should read the guidance and FAQs provided by MTI. They may then apply
to be exempted via the same website. Only entities performing, or
providing critical support for, essential activities will be exempted.
14.          Except for those allowed to commute for work, Singapore
residents and foreign workers should remain largely within their place
of residence. They can still go out to buy meals or other essentials, or
procure essential services, but should otherwise minimise the time they
spend outside.
15.          Given the emergence of cluster of cases in foreign worker
dormitories, we will put in place extra precautions. All foreign workers
living in such dormitories will be required to stay within their
dormitory premises.  Dormitory operators will also have to adopt
additional measures in these premises to minimise the risk of
transmission, and to reduce inter-mixing of workers between blocks.
Dormitory operators are also required to put up clear signages to inform
the foreign workers not to congregate or gather at common areas. MOM is
following up with dormitory operators on immediate implementation of all
of these measures.

FULL HOME-BASED LEARNING FOR SCHOOLS
16.          From 8 April 2020 to 4 May 2020, schools and institutes of
higher learning will shift to full home-based learning, while preschool
and student care centres will suspend services. Private education
institutions should also move to home-based learning, or suspend classes
otherwise.
17.          Parents working in essential services such as healthcare,
who are unable to secure alternative care arrangements may approach
their children’s preschools and primary schools for assistance.

CLOSURE OF RECREATION VENUES, ATTRACTIONS AND PLACES OF WORSHIP
18.          From 7 April 2020, all attractions, theme parks, museums
and casinos will be closed. Sports and recreation facilities, such as
public swimming pools, country clubs, gyms and fitness studios will also
be closed. All recreational facilities in hotels will be closed.
19.          As earlier announced, organised sporting programmes and
religious services will remain suspended. Places of worship will be
closed.
SUPPORT FOR BUSINESSES AND HOUSEHOLDS
20.          These measures are necessary, but will have disruption to
businesses and households. The Government will announce added support
for households and businesses on 6 April 2020, on top of what was
provided in the earlier Budgets to tide them over the next month.

PROTECTION FOR THE GENERAL POPULATION
21.          Our population is best protected not through a single
measure on its own, but a collection. These include safe distancing,
good personal hygiene such as regular hand washing and not touching
one’s face unnecessarily. Of particular importance is to protect
vulnerable groups, especially our seniors.
22.          Members of the public are strongly advised to stay at home
and avoid going out unnecessarily, except to purchase daily necessities,
essential services, or for urgent medical needs. There should be no
social gatherings. Social contact should be confined to immediate family
members living in the same household during this period.
23.          Members of the public who need to exercise should do so on
their own, around their immediate neighbourhood in open, uncrowded
places. Public parks and open-air stadiums will remain open, but
gatherings in groups in these spaces must be avoided. Members of the
public should practise safe distancing even in open spaces.

Use of Masks
24.          The Government’s recommendation on the use of masks thus
far has been based on scientific advice and guidelines from the World
Health Organization (WHO), and that is for individuals to wear surgical
masks only when sick, in order to protect others. This was also when we
did not have community spread of the virus in Singapore.
25.          The situation is now changing. There is increased local
transmission in Singapore, and a possibility of some undetected cases in
the community. There is also some evidence that infected people showing
no symptoms may infect others. This is why the WHO is reviewing its
guidelines on mask usage.
26.          Given these changed circumstances, we have updated our
guidance. The general public is advised to stay home and avoid
interactions with anyone other than immediate family members living in
the same household. For those who need to go out, and are unable to
avoid close contact with others, then wearing a mask could provide some
protection. Reusable masks can be considered for this purpose, to
provide some basic protection. This is because there is currently a
global shortage of surgical masks, and we need to conserve these masks
for those who need them most, i.e. our healthcare workers.
27.          We will distribute reusable masks to all residents with
registered home addresses. The distribution will take place
progressively from 5 to 12 April 2020, from collection points at
designated Community Clubs/ Centres (CCs) and Residents’ Committee (RC)
Centres. Family/ household members will be able to collect on behalf of
their other household members.

SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS KEY
28.          Social responsibility is critical in slowing the spread of
COVID-19. We need all Singaporeans to do the right thing, if we are to
beat the virus.
29.          Those who are unwell, even with mild flu-like symptoms,
should see a doctor immediately. They should not go out into the public
for any other purpose, and should not come into close contact with
others. We should stop non-essential activities and avoid all gatherings
beyond our immediate family or household members during this period. All
should adopt safe distancing and good hygiene practices even at home,
and encourage your friends and family to do so as well.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 APRIL 2020

[1]  Please refer to the MOM website (www.mom.gov.sg/covid-19) for the
latest advisories.
[2]  Except for essential supplies and services that may need to step up
to ensure that the needs of the population are met, such as retail
supermarkets and logistics and delivery services.
