One more case discharged; two new cases of novel coronavirus infection
confirmed



ONE MORE CASE DISCHARGED; TWO NEW CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 10 Feb 2020

                One more confirmed case of the 2019 novel coronavirus
(2019-nCoV) infection has been discharged from hospital today. In all,
seven have fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged
from hospital.
2.              As of 10 February 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed two additional cases of 2019-nCoV infection in
Singapore. Of these, one was on the evacuation flight from Wuhan on 30
January. Contact tracing of the other case is underway.
3.              Of the 23 locally transmitted cases, epidemiological
investigations and contact tracing have uncovered links between 15 of
the cases with the three currently known clusters[1]. Contact tracing is
underway for the other eight locally transmitted cases, including Case
44, to establish if they are linked to previous cases or persons with
travel history to mainland China.
ABOUT THE CONFIRMED CASES
Case 44
4.              Case 44 is a 37 year-old male Singapore Citizen with no
recent travel history to China. He is currently warded in an isolation
room at Khoo Teck Puat Hospital (KTPH).
5.              He reported onset of symptoms on 31 January, and had
sought treatment at a general practitioner clinic on 2 February. He went
to KTPH on 6 February where he was immediately isolated. Subsequent test
results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 9 February afternoon.
6.              Prior to hospital admission, he hadgone to work at
Certis Cisco Centre (20 Jalan Afifi), and had been on duty at Chingay
2020. Prior to onset of symptoms, he had served Quarantine Orders on two
individuals from Wuhan who were subsequently tested positive for
2019-nCoV. He had not served any Quarantine Order after onset of
symptoms. He stays at Sembawang Drive.
Case 45
7.              Case 45 is a two year-old female Singapore Citizen who
was evacuated from Wuhan on 30 January. She was without symptoms when
she boarded the flight, and was placed under quarantine upon landing in
Singapore. She was referred to KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital (KKH)
on 7 February based on initial test results, and was immediately
isolated. She was subsequently confirmed to have 2019-nCoV infection on
10 February morning.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
8.              To date, a total of seven cases have fully recovered
from the infection and have been discharged from hospital. Of the 38
confirmed cases who are still in hospital, most are stable or improving.
Seven are in critical condition in the intensive care unit.
UPDATE ON SUSPECT CASES
9.              As of 10 February 2020, 12pm, 581 of the suspect cases
have tested negative for 2019-nCoV, and 45 have tested positive. Test
results for the remaining 39 cases are pending.
UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES
10.              Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing.
Once identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.
11.              As of 10 February 2020, 12pm, MOH has identified 1,026
close contacts. Of the 927 who are still in Singapore, 896 have been
contacted and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to
contact the remaining 31 close contacts.
NO EVIDENCE OF TRANSMISSION THROUGH AEROSOL
12.              MOH has looked into reports that 2019-nCOV could be
transmitted through aerosol.
13.              Based on evidence available in China, an expert from
the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention has said that
there is currently no evidence that the virus can be transmitted through
aerosol. The currently known transmission routes of the virus are via
respiratory droplets and physical contact.
HEALTH ADVISORY
14.              Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
15.              All travellers should monitor their health closely for
two weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly
if they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their
travel history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g.
cough, shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic
ahead of the visit.
16.              Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

17.              MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases who have
recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more cases that will
need to be investigated.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The known clusters are linked to The Life Church and Missions
Singapore, Yong Thai Hang and the private business meeting held at Grand
Hyatt Singapore from 20 to 22 January.
