Additional Measures to Minimise Further Spread of Covid-19 Within
Foreign Worker Dormitories



ADDITIONAL MEASURES TO MINIMISE FURTHER SPREAD OF COVID-19 WITHIN FOREIGN WORKER DORMITORIES


Published Date: 05 Apr 2020

    The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) had issued advisories on enhanced
precautionary measures in dormitories to minimise the risk of COVID-19
transmission. However transmissions within foreign worker dormitories
have continued to rise and we are seeing more confirmed cases and
workers who are ill. The S11 Dormitory @ Punggol (2 Seletar North Link)
and Westlite Toh Guan dormitory (18 Toh Guan Road East) are of
particular concern.
2.    The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has decided that further measures are
necessary to contain the risk of further transmission among the foreign
workers within these two dormitories. This would keep the workers safe,
as well as protect the wider community from widespread transmission from
these clusters. Both S11 Dormitory @ Punggol and Westlite Toh Guan
dormitory have been declared as isolation areas. Onsite medical support
has been deployed, along with provision of food and essential supplies.
MEASURES TO CONTAIN FURTHER OUTBREAK
3.    The S11 Dormitory @ Punggol, with 13,000 resident workers, and
Westlite Toh Guan dormitory, with 6,800 resident workers, have been
gazetted as isolation areas. Given the rising number of confirmed cases,
this is necessary to avoid the risk of further transmissions from any
potentially infected workers to others in the dormitories, as well as
into the community. Workers who are symptomatic have already been
isolated.
4.    Within these two dormitories, precautionary steps have also been
taken to protect workers who are well. All the affected workers will not
go to work. Access to recreational facilities will be regulated to
reduce the inter-mixing of workers. Movement between blocks is
prohibited. Workers have also been advised to cease social interactions
with others who do not reside in the same room or floor.
5.    MOM is working closely with all dormitory operators, to implement
similar measures within their premises with immediate effect. Efforts
are also underway in the larger dormitories to reduce the density of
their resident workers, by transferring some among them to alternative
accommodation during this period.
SUPPORT PROVIDED TO WORKERS
6.    The workers will continue to be paid their salaries for the
duration of the quarantine. Their period of absence from work is treated
as paid hospitalisation leave as part of the worker’s leave eligibility
under the Employment of Foreign Manpower Act (EFMA). Their employers are
eligible to claim for the $100 daily quarantine allowance.
7.    Arrangements will be made to cater three meals a day for all
affected workers for the duration of the quarantine. They will also be
issued with reusable masks, surgical masks, thermometers, hand
sanitisers and other essentials so they can keep themselves safe and
comfortable.
8.    Onsite medical support has been deployed to support the workers
residing at both dormitories. The dormitories have also implemented
enhanced health screening measures, such as requiring workers to check
and report their temperature twice daily, as well as the regular
monitoring for fever and respiratory symptoms. Those who are unwell will
be isolated and will be assessed by medical personnel for further
attention.
SUPPORT PROVIDED TO COMPANIES WITH AFFECTED WORKERS
9.    Companies that are providing essential services with workers
affected by this quarantine order will be supported and arrangements
will be made to ensure these essential services can continue to be
provided.
ADVISORY TO DORMITORY OPERATORS
10.   Dormitory operators and workers living in dormitories are reminded
of the importance of maintaining high standards of hygiene and
cleanliness to safeguard their own health and those of others who are
living in the same space. Safe distancing measures must be strictly
adhered to. These include measures such as no inter-mixing of workers
between dormitory blocks and floors, and for workers to stay within
their rooms and to minimise interactions.
11.   Social responsibility is critical in slowing the transmission of
the virus. We need every individual to play their part in the fight
against the virus. Those who are unwell, even with mild flu-like
symptoms, should not be at work. They must see a doctor immediately to
prevent spreading illness to others.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH & MINISTRY OF MANPOWER
5 APRIL 2020
