Implementing Safeentry and Safe Management Practices



IMPLEMENTING SAFEENTRY AND SAFE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES


Published Date: 09 May 2020

                The Multi-Ministry Taskforce had earlier announced a set
of safe management practices and technologies for individuals and
businesses to adopt to support the safe and gradual resumption of normal
activities.
NEED FOR SAFE MANAGEMENT PRACTICES
2.             The Ministry of Health’s (MOH) study of linked cases in
the community found that outside of the household setting, the majority
of cases arose from workplace interactions, including work activities
such as meetings and discussions, as well as meals or social
interactions among colleagues.
3.             To reduce the risk of transmission as we gradually resume
activities, all businesses and individuals must uphold good practices
and measures that minimise the need for prolonged interactions. Good
safe management measures like telecommuting, avoiding face-to-face
meetings, and regular disinfection of common touch points and equipment
should continue. At work premises, workers should avoid all social
interactions with their colleagues, including during meals and break
times. Everyone must wear masks when outside of the home. Basic hygiene
practices such as staying home when unwell, and practising good hand and
personal hygiene must continue.
4.             In line with these, the Ministry of Manpower and other
relevant agencies will be issuing more details on the safe management
measures which employers are required to implement in various workplace
settings, including offices, common meeting and rest areas, factories,
customer-facing settings and transportation.
IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEENTRY
5.             Alongside measures to reduce the risk of transmission in
daily interactions and activities, we need to continue to strengthen our
contact tracing regime through the use of technology.
6.             As announced previously, businesses and services that are
in operation must come on board SafeEntry to log the check-in of
employees and visitors. As a start, deployment will be made mandatory
for places where individuals are likely to be in close proximity for
prolonged periods or in enclosed spaces, or where there is higher
traffic. To date, SafeEntry has been deployed at over 16,000 premises.
The list of facilities/places where SafeEntry must be deployed from 12
May 2020 is found in the ANNEX. This list will be updated at
https://www.safeentry.gov.sg/deployment as more activities and services
resume.
7.             Employees and visitors should check-in and check-out of
workplaces and other venues using SafeEntry to help our contact tracers
establish cluster links and transmission chains. It is important that
everyone plays their part and uses SafeEntry, so that we can
collectively prevent new clusters from forming.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS KEY
8.             Social responsibility is critical in slowing the spread
of COVID-19. Even as the circuit breaker measures are gradually eased,
all of us should continue to stay at home as much as possible, and
minimise movement outside the home. Individuals should adopt good
practices and abide by safe distancing measures, and businesses should
put in place safe management measures, so that we can resume activities
safely and gradually as we exit the circuit breaker period.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SMART NATION AND DIGITAL GOVERNMENT OFFICE
