Update on Novel Coronavirus Infection in Singapore



UPDATE ON NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 25 Jan 2020

As of 12pm, 25 January 2020, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has not been
notified of any new confirmed cases. Three confirmed cases were earlier
announced on 23 and 24 January.

2. MOH has been notified of a cumulative total of 64 suspect cases, of
which 29 have tested negative for the novel coronavirus, and three have
tested positive. Test results for the remaining 32 cases are pending.



UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES

3. Contact tracing for all three confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.



First confirmed case

4. 46 individuals (inclusive of the third confirmed case) have been
identified as close contacts of the first confirmed case involving a 66
year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan. As of 25 January, 12pm, 26
have left Singapore. 15 have been contacted, and have been isolated or
quarantined.



5. The close contacts of the first case included eight travelling
companions who had left Singapore on 23 January 2020 at about 12pm,
before the case was confirmed with novel coronavirus infection at 6pm.
MOH had informed the Malaysian authorities when the close contacts had
been identified.



Second confirmed case

6. MOH has identified 57 close contacts of the second case involving a
53 year-old female Chinese national from Wuhan. Two of them have left
Singapore. Of the 55 in Singapore, we have contacted 40, who are being
quarantined. Efforts are ongoing to contact the remaining 15 close
contacts.



Third confirmed case

7. The 37 year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan, who is the son of
the first confirmed case, has been isolated since 23 January when he was
classified as a suspect case given that he was symptomatic and a close
contact of the first case.





8. His close contacts are largely similar to the first confirmed case.
MOH has identified an additional three close contacts, and has contacted
two so far.



9. Given the high volume of international travel to Singapore, MOH
expects to see more suspect and imported cases. We urge the public to
remain calm and vigilant, and to adopt good personal hygiene practices.



HEALTH ADVISORY

10. Singaporeans are advised not to travel to the whole of Hubei
Province. MOH also advises Singaporeans to continue to exercise caution
and attention to personal hygiene when travelling to the rest of China.



11. All travellers should monitor their health closely for two weeks
upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if they
feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.



12. Travellers and members of the public should adopt the following
precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid crowded places and close contact with people who are unwell or
    showing symptoms of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

