309 More Cases Discharged, 68 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



309 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 68 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 20 Aug 2020

       As of 20 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 68 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 2 (2 Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents)
Both the imported cases today are Singaporeans/ Permanent Residents who
returned to Singapore from India on 6 August and 8 August. They had been
placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and
had been tested while serving their SHN.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0
There are no cases in the community today.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 2 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 1 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of fewer than 1 per day in the past 2
weeks. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the
cases detected through our surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 66
The Inter-agency Taskforce has completed the testing of all workers in
the dormitories. There are currently about 14,500 workers who are still
serving out their quarantine period. These workers will be tested when
their quarantine ends, and we expect the case counts to remain high in
the coming days, before tapering down thereafter.
2.   Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.        Of the new cases, 99% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.
4.      Tech Park Crescent dormitory (43 Tech Park Crescent) and the
dormitory at 53 Sungei Kadut Loop have been cleared by the Inter-agency
Taskforce, and now house only recovered individuals and those who have
recently tested negative for COVID-19 infection. As such, the clusters
have now been closed.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.      309 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 53,119 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.       There are currently 75 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 2,878 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
20 AUGUST 2020
