655 More Cases Discharged; 451 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



655 MORE CASES DISCHARGED; 451 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 10 Jun 2020

         As of 10 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 451 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown is as follows:

A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.

B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 7 (3 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 1 Work
Pass holder, 3 Work Permit holders)
Of the 7 cases in the community, 2 had already been quarantined and 4
were proactively screened as part of our surveillance and active case
finding to identify cases early and isolate them.

Amongst the 3 Singaporeans/Permanent Residents, 1 (Case 38555) is a
household contact of a previously confirmed case, and had already been
quarantined. Another (Case 38741) is a security guard at a dormitory at
31 Sungei Kadut Avenue, and was proactively tested as part of our
screening of persons working at dormitories. Epidemiological
investigations are ongoing for the remaining case (Case 38697).

All 4 Work Pass/ Work Permit holders are asymptomatic but we had
detected them from our active surveillance and screening. Amongst them,
2 (Cases 38632 and 38857) were tested due to our proactive screening of
workers in essential services, and another (Case 38633) was swabbed as
he works as a security guard at Hai Leck Engineering Pte Ltd  (12 Tuas
Drive 1), an active cluster. The remaining case (Case 38635) is a
housemate of previously confirmed cases, and had already been
quarantined in a government quarantine facility earlier. He was swabbed
during quarantine to verify his status.

Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 4 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 9 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also increased, from an average of 2 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 4 per day in the past week. This is partly due to our
active surveillance and screening of targeted groups, which have picked
up more cases in the past week [1]. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.

C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 444
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.

2.      Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.

3.     Of the new cases, 98% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.      MOH and the Ministry of Education had announced on 7 June that 6
cases [2] of COVID-19 infection had been picked up as a result of our
proactive testing of school staff and students above the age of 12
diagnosed with acute respiratory infection at first presentation to a
doctor. All 6 cases had displayed mild symptoms, with low viral loads. A
repeat test using new samples showed that all the cases were negative.
All of them have since recovered and 5 have been discharged from
hospital. The remaining case is medically fit for discharge, but remains
in hospital pending resolution of administrative issues.
5.      The Health Sciences Authority, in consultation with its
Medicines Advisory Committee, has granted conditional approval for
Gilead Sciences Singapore Pte Ltd’s Veklury® (remdesivir) today, after
an expedited review. Singapore is among the earliest countries to grant
an approval for the medicine. MOH is working with the National Centre
for Infectious Diseases on developing guidelines for the appropriate use
of the drug in healthcare institutions, and identifying the patients who
are likely to benefit most from this medicine.

LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

6.      In the past week (3 June to 9 June), MOH has uncovered links for
4 previously unlinked cases.
7.      Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.

CASES FROM PUBLIC HEALTHCARE SECTOR

Case 38697

8.      Case 38697 is a 38 year-old female Singapore Citizen who has no
recent travel history to affected countries or regions. She was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 9 June, and is currently warded
at Singapore General Hospital (SGH).
9.      She is employed as a nurse at SGH but had not gone to work since
onset of symptoms.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
10.   655 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 26,532 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
11.    There are currently 223 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 3 are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 12,185 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 25 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
10 JUNE 2020

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] These include surveillance testing of workers in essential services,
staff in preschools, and school staff and students above the age of 12
who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at first
presentation to a doctor, as well as those with prolonged ARI symptoms.

[2] MOE announced five cases from from Anglican High School, CHIJ Katong
Convent, CHIJ St. Theresa’s Convent, Geylang Methodist Secondary School
and Hwa Chong Institution. The sixth case is from Ascensia International
School.
