Joint MOM-MOH Statement On the Issuance of Correction Directions Under
Pofma Against Nuss, the Online Citizen Asia, Cna and New Naratif



JOINT MOM-MOH STATEMENT ON THE ISSUANCE OF CORRECTION DIRECTIONS UNDER POFMA AGAINST NUSS, THE ONLINE CITIZEN ASIA, CNA AND NEW NARATIF


Published Date: 05 Jul 2020

INTRODUCTION



1.     The Alternate Authority for the Minister for Manpower has
instructed POFMA Office to issue five Correction Directions [1] (CD) to
the following:



-   Video “NUSS Pre-General Election Forum 2020”, published by NUSS on 3
    July 2020 on YouTube
-   Facebook post and video titled “Dr Paul Tambyah reveals MOM’s role
    in outbreak of COVID-19 within dormitories”, published by TOC on 4
    July 2020
-   Video “TOC GE2020 Livestream – Afternoon session 2 July 2020”,
    published by TOC on 2 July 2020
-   Online article “GE2020: Focus on public health could have been lost
    in March amid talk of early election, suggests SDP’s Paul Tambyah”,
    published by CNA on 4 July 2020
-   Audio recording titled “An Interview with Dr Paul Tambyah”,
    published by New Naratif on 5 July 2020



2.     The CDs will require NUSS, TOC, CNA and New Naratif to each carry
a correction notice stating that the above-mentioned online content
contains false statement of facts.



3.     The NUSS video, TOC’s Facebook post and videos, CNA’s online
article and New Naratif’s audio recording contain the following
statements by Dr Paul Anantharajah Tambyah:



-   Ministry of Manpower’s (MOM) email advisory to employers on testing
    of migrant workers was made without the advice from public health
    medical professionals
-   MOM‘s advisory stated that employers would lose their work pass
    privileges if they brought their workers for COVID-19 testing
-   MOM actively discouraged the testing of workers



4.     These statements are false. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce, led by
the Ministers and staffed by senior public officials and medical
professionals, was set up in January 2020 to direct the national
whole-of-government response to COVID-19 and to ensure smooth
coordination across Ministries and all affected sectors. The medical
management of migrant workers was guided by the Ministry of Health (MOH)
and its medical professionals, based on the prevailing scientific
evidence and local situation.



5.     On 8 February 2020, Changi General Hospital (CGH) informed MOH
that an employer in the construction industry was sending all his
workers to the CGH A&E Department to be tested for COVID-19 though the
workers exhibited no symptoms and were well. They were also asking for
memos from the hospital to certify that the workers were not infected
with COVID-19 and were fit to work. The hospital was concerned that this
would trigger a flood of healthy workers being sent to A&E departments,
distracting them from the care and treatment of ill patients who
required their attention. On 12 February 2020, MOH, MOM and other
agencies jointly issued an advisory to the industry to advise that there
was no need to prevent workers who were residing in the dormitory from
working if they were not unwell.



6.     Subsequently, the hospitals informed MOH that employers were
still sending workers who were healthy for testing. MOH then informed
MOM, and a further advisory was sent out on 19 February 2020 to advise
employers not to send their workers who were healthy for testing, so as
to ensure that medical facilities and resources were focused on unwell
individuals who needed medical treatment. This advice was based on the
prevailing scientific evidence at that time and was also in line with
MOH’s risk-based approach to prioritise testing and care for those who
were of high risk.



7.     In the advisories to employers, MOM did not say that employers
could not bring their workers for testing.  Neither did MOM actively
discourage the testing of workers. What MOM said was: “Do not send
workers to hospitals unless it is a medical emergency. If the worker is
unwell, employers should send him to a general practitioner to seek
medical attention, who will make a proper assessment on whether the
worker needs to be sent to the hospital.”



8.     The same advice was given to all in Singapore, citizens as well
as residents: If unwell, even with mild respiratory symptoms, see a
general practitioner immediately, who will decide on the course of
treatment.



9.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce and government agencies will
continue to take proactive measures to ensure the well-being of our
migrant workers and safeguard the health of the general public.



FOR MORE INFORMATION



10.     For details on the corrections and clarifications regarding the
misleading false statements of facts, please refer to
www.gov.sg/article/factually050720a

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] A Correction Direction is a Direction issued to a person who has
communicated a falsehood (i.e. the recipient) that affects the public
interest. It requires the recipient to publish a correction notice,
providing access to the correct facts. The Direction does not require
the recipient to take down their post or make edits to their content and
does not impose criminal sanctions.


