7,500 Job Vacancies and 1,600 Traineeship, Attachment and Skills
Training Opportunities Available In the Healthcare Sector



7,500 JOB VACANCIES AND 1,600 TRAINEESHIP, ATTACHMENT AND SKILLS TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES AVAILABLE IN THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR


Published Date: 25 Aug 2020

1.     The healthcare sector continues to offer meaningful employment
opportunities for Singaporeans. From now until end 2021, the healthcare
sector will be offering up to a total of about 7,500 jobs, and about
1,600 traineeships, attachments and skills training opportunities. The
majority of these positions are suitable for fresh graduates entering
the workforce and mid-career jobseekers with or without prior healthcare
background. These vacancies and opportunities will help to fulfil
current and future expanding needs for healthcare services, given
Singapore’s ageing population.

JOB OPPORTUNITIES IN THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR

2.     Of the 7,500 job opportunities, about one-third are for
healthcare professionals including nurses and allied health
professionals. These vacancies will be mainly met by fresh graduates
from healthcare training programmes, as well as graduates from our
Professional Conversion Programmes (PCP) targetted at mid-career
entrants into the healthcare sector. Currently, we have about 200
nursing and allied health PCP training places available each year, and
we will be adding at least another 100 new training places in 2021.

3.     The remaining vacancies are for various roles including support
care, and administrative and ancillary roles, which will be suitable for
fresh graduates and mid-career job seekers from non-healthcare
backgrounds. These vacancies are available across both the public
healthcare and community care sector, ranging from service management
positions, such as patient service associates, to blended job roles
which involve providing support in non-clinical care or administrative
operations. There are also managerial and executive roles available for
those who may have relevant administrative experience or training
outside the healthcare sector, for example in financial management,
accounting, human resources, or digitalisation of business processes.
Training, on-boarding and orientation will be provided.

TRAINEESHIPS, ATTACHMENTS AND SKILLS TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES UNDER
SGUNITED JOBS AND SKILLS PACKAGE

4.     Workforce Singapore (WSG) and SkillsFuture Singapore are working
with healthcare and community care providers in the public and private
sectors, as well as training institutions and the healthcare union, to
offer about 1,600 traineeship, attachments and skills training
opportunities, for individuals to acquire relevant working experience
and work-ready skills needed in the sector. Employers and trainees will
receive funding support during the traineeship, attachment or skills
training period.

• TRAINEESHIPS AND ATTACHMENTS

Fresh or recent graduates can tap on the SGUnited Traineeships
Programme, while mid-career individuals can apply for attachments
available under the SGUnited Mid-Career Pathways Programme, to join the
healthcare sector. The traineeships and attachments last between four to
nine months in duration, and are available for various roles, including
patient service associates, dental surgery assistants and other admin
and ancillary roles. Employers can consider hiring well-performing
trainees and mid-career individuals at any time during or after the
completion of the traineeship or attachment.

• SKILLS TRAINING

Mid-career job seekers can tap on the SGUnited Skills programme to apply
for skills training in healthcare roles, such as support staff and
executives in clinical and non-clinical roles. Skills training lasts
between six to 12 months for various job roles that include healthcare
assistants, therapy assistants, community care coordinators, pharmacy
technicians and health managers and administrators. Over 1,300 training
opportunities will be offered by seven training partners, with classes
starting progressively from August 2020.

The training providers are:

o HMI Institute of Health Sciences

o Institute of Technical Education

o NTUC Learning Hub

o Republic Polytechnic

o Singapore Management University

o Singapore University of Social Sciences

o Temasek Polytechnic

5.     In all, these opportunities will allow more Singaporeans to join
the healthcare workforce. The job vacancies and opportunities will be
made available progressively over 2020 and 2021. Job seekers will be
able to access these opportunities through WSG’s MyCareersFuture job
portal, and various job fairs and recruitment platforms.
