Changes to Childcare Arrangements During Circuit Breaker



CHANGES TO CHILDCARE ARRANGEMENTS DURING CIRCUIT BREAKER


Published Date: 10 Apr 2020

  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has announced that parents should
not send their children to the care of their grandparents on a daily
basis during this circuit breaker period. This is to prevent the spread
of the COVID-19 infection through regular interactions between
households, and to protect our vulnerable seniors. The Taskforce will
allow exemptions to support our essential service workers during this
period.

2.  The Taskforce implemented an elevated set of safe
distancing measures from 7 April till 4 May 2020, as a circuit breaker
to pre-empt the trend of increasing local transmission of COVID-19. The
aim is to limit the spread of the disease by significantly reducing
movement and social interactions.

3.  As part of these measures, members of the public are to
stay at home, and not go out unnecessarily except to purchase daily
necessities, essential services, or for urgent medical needs. Seniors
are most vulnerable to severe COVID-19 infection. Hence seniors are
strongly urged to stay home and minimise interactions with those outside
their household.  Individuals can visit the elderly to assist them with
their daily needs such as bringing them groceries, food and other
essential supplies, but interaction time should be kept to a minimum.



PROTECTING GRANDPARENTS FROM RISK OF INFECTION

4.  During this period, parents are encouraged to care for
their children within their own households. Employers are requested to
exercise the necessary flexibility to support parents who are working
from home during this time, as having to care for their children
personally might take a toll on their work productivity.

5.  If it is the existing care arrangement for the child to be
placed under the care of their grandparents who live outside the
household and there are no alternative care arrangements, parents could
consider placing their children with their grandparents throughout the
entire circuit breaker period. This is to minimise frequent interactions
across households.

6.  We recognise that many parents will find this a difficult
adjustment, especially if they have always had daily childcare support
from grandparents or pre-schools/ childcare centres. However, this is
done out of necessity to protect our seniors.



FLEXIBILITY TO BE EXERCISED FOR FAMILIES WITH ESSENTIAL SERVICE WORKERS

7.  While most parents would be working from home, there would
be some households where parents have to continue going to work during
this period. These are workers in our essential services, especially our
healthcare workers who are on the frontline working on shifts and on
weekends, when childcare centres may not be available, and may be
activated at any time of the day to respond to the COVID-19 situation.
They will face additional difficulties which may be unnecessarily
stressful for these essential service personnel. For very young
children, we also recognise that it is difficult for them to be away
from their parents for long periods of time, and adjusting to new
caregivers that they are unfamiliar with would be challenging.

8.  Therefore we will be implementing exemptions for the
following families, where they may continue to tap on the grandparents
for childcare support on a daily basis:

a.  Both parents are essential service workers and unable to
work from home;
b.  One parent is a healthcare professional (e.g. doctor,
nurse, allied health professional, support care staff) and is unable to
work from home; and
c.  One parent is an essential service worker who is unable
to work from home, and have a child/children below the age of three.

9.  Parents requiring assistance may contact ECDA at
contact@ecda.gov.sg or 67359213.



SAFE DISTANCING PRECAUTIONS TO PROTECT SENIORS

10.  Families who are relying on the grandparents for childcare
on a daily basis are advised to take the necessary safe distancing
precautions to protect the elderly. Observe personal hygiene and try to
reduce interaction time as far as possible when visiting their home. Do
not visit when unwell.

11.  We understand that this is a very difficult adjustment for
many families, and these measures go against the instinct to be close to
and to support our loved ones. But our elderly are most susceptible to
severe COVID-19 infection, and we should refrain from exposing them to
the risk of COVID-19 as far as possible, by minimising physical
interactions with them.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
10 APRIL 2020
