768 More Cases Discharged, 347 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



768 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 347 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 13 Jun 2020

1. As of 13 June 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed
and verified an additional 347 cases of COVID-19 infection in Singapore.
The breakdown is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 0
There are no imported cases today.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 5 (2 Singaporeans, 3 Work Permit holders)
Of the 5 cases in the community, 3 had been picked up as a result of our
proactive surveillance and screening, and 1 had already been placed on
quarantine.
Both Singaporean cases were detected through proactive screening. 1
(Case 39893) was tested as part of our proactive testing of school
students above the age of 12 diagnosed with acute respiratory infection
(ARI) at first presentation to a doctor. Her serological test result has
come back positive, which is indicative of a past infection. The
epidemiological evidence suggests that she was likely to have been
infected during the Circuit Breaker period, and not after school
re-opening. The other case (Case 39901) was swabbed as she works at SCM
Tuas Lodge, a dormitory.
Amongst the 3 Work Pass/ Work Permit holders, 1 (Case 40027) was a
contact of previously confirmed cases, and had already been quarantined
at a government quarantine facility earlier. He was swabbed during
quarantine to verify his status. Another case (Case 40134) was tested as
part of our efforts to screen workers in essential services. The
remaining case is linked to the cluster at Alaunia Lodge.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased, from an
average of 7 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 8 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also increased, from an average of 2 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 4 per day in the past week. This is partly due to our
active surveillance and screening of targeted groups, which have picked
up more cases in the past week. We will continue to closely monitor
these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our surveillance
programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 342
We continue to pick up cases amongst Work Permit holders residing in
dormitories, including in factory-converted dormitories, because of
extensive testing in these premises, as part of our process to verify
and test the status of all workers.
2. Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex A for
the summary of the confirmed cases.
3. Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the rest
are pending contact tracing.
4. MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to Space @ Tuas
Apartment (16 Tuas Avenue 1) for the past two incubation periods (i.e.
28 days), the cluster has now been closed.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5. In the past week (6 June to 12 June), MOH has uncovered links for 10
previously unlinked cases.
6. Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7. 768 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 28,808 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8. There are currently 228 confirmed cases who are still in hospital. Of
these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition in
the intensive care unit. 11,135 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 26 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
9. Case 161, a 73 year-old male Singapore Citizen, has passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection on 12 June 2020. He was
confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 9 March, and had a history of
hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and chronic kidney disease. The National
Centre for Infectious Diseases has reached out to his family and is
extending assistance to them.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 JUNE 2020
