Three more confirmed imported cases of Wuhan coronavirus infection in
Singapore



THREE MORE CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASES OF WUHAN CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 30 Jan 2020

                  As of 30 January 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health
(MOH) has confirmed three additional imported cases of Wuhan coronavirus
infection in Singapore. Ten confirmed cases were earlier announced by
MOH.
2. There is currently no evidence of community spread in
Singapore.
ABOUT THE CASES
Case 11
3. The 11th case is a 31 year-old female Chinese national
from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore on 22 January. She was a travelling
companion of the fourth confirmed case¹. She is currently warded in an
isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID).
4. The case reported that she was asymptomatic during her
flight to Singapore. She was identified as a close contact of the fourth
confirmed case and had been quarantined from 26 January. She developed
symptoms on 27 January, and was admitted to NCID. Subsequent test
results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 29 January at about
11pm.
Case 12
5. The 12th confirmed case is a 37 year-old female Chinese
national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore with her family on 22
January. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the NCID.
6. The case reported that she was asymptomatic during her
flight to Singapore. She subsequently developed symptoms on 26 January.
She took a taxi to Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 29 January, and was
classified as a suspect case and immediately isolated at NCID.
Subsequent test results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 29
January at about 11pm.
7. Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed at Village
Hotel Sentosa (10 Artillery Avenue), Hotel 81 Princess (21 Lorong 12
Geylang) and Home Suite View Hotel (12 Lorong 12 Geylang). She indicated
that she had visited Orchard Road and Geylang, and had travelled by
taxi. The risk of infection from transient contact, such as on public
transport or in public places, is assessed to be low.
Case 13
8. The 13th confirmed case is a 73 year-old female Chinese
national who arrived in Singapore from Wuhan with her family on 21
January. She was tested positive for Wuhan coronavirus infection on 30
January at about 2pm. She is currently warded in an isolation room at
NCID and her condition is stable.
9. MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and
contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the
cases.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
10. The three new cases are stable currently, and we are
continuing to monitor their health. As for the ten previously announced
cases, none is critically ill. All of them remain in stable condition,
and most are improving.
UPDATE ON SUSPECT CASES
11. As of 30 January, 12pm, 164 of the suspect cases have
tested negative for the Wuhan coronavirus, and 13 have tested positive
(case 13 was confirmed at about 2pm, 30 January). Test results for the
remaining 49 cases are pending.
UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES
12. Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.
13. As of 30 January, 12pm, MOH has identified 170 close
contacts. Of the 139 who are still in Singapore, 135 have been contacted
and are being quarantined or isolated. Efforts are ongoing to contact
the remaining four close contacts.
HEALTH ADVISORY
14. Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
15. All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.
16. Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:
· Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
· Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing
symptoms of illness;
· Observe good personal hygiene;
· Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
· Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath;
· Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
· Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
17. MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who
have recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect
cases that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.
____________
1 The fourth case is a 36 year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan who
arrived in Singapore on 22 January.
