Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From the Republic of Korea



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA


Published Date: 24 Dec 2020

      The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation, and will be tightening border measures given
the sustained surge in cases in the Republic of Korea (ROK). All
travellers entering Singapore from 26 DECEMBER 2020, 2359 HOURS, who
have a travel history in the past 14 days to the Republic of Korea will
now be required to serve a 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated
SHN facilities.

TRAVELLERS FROM REPUBLIC OF KOREA TO SERVE 14-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN
FACILITIES

2.   We had earlier announced that travellers from the Republic of Korea
are allowed to serve their 14-day SHN at a suitable place of residence.

3.   Given the increased risk of community spread recently, all
travellers entering Singapore from 26 DECEMBER 2020, 2359 HOURS who have
a travel history (including transit) in the past 14 days to the Republic
of Korea will be required to serve a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities. The 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities also applies to
returning Singapore-based travellers under the Singapore-ROK Reciprocal
Green Lane (RGL).

4.   Travellers from Hong Kong, Fiji, Sri Lanka and Thailand are still
allowed to apply to opt out of dedicated SHN facilities and serve their
14-day SHN at their place of residence, if they fulfil the following
criteria:

a)  Travelled to no other country/ region than above-mentioned
countries/ regions [1], in the last consecutive 14 days prior to entry;
and

b)  Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential address)
alone, or only with household members who are also persons serving SHN
with the same travel history and duration of SHN.

The COVID-19 tests will continue to be administered before the end of
the SHN.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

5.   As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry,
including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, tests and
treatment.

6. All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their travel
history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false
declarations.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Including the following countries/regions: Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Macao, Mainland China, New Zealand, Taiwan and Vietnam
(correct as of 24 December 2020).
