Expert Committee Appointed to Make Recommendations to the Government On
Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy



EXPERT COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO MAKE RECOMMENDATIONS TO THE GOVERNMENT ON COVID-19 VACCINATION STRATEGY


Published Date: 12 Nov 2020

  The Ministry of Health (MOH) has appointed a 14-member Expert
Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination to make recommendations to the
government on Singapore’s COVID-19 vaccination strategy, and ensure the
safe and effective use of COVID-19 vaccines in our population. The
Expert Committee’s appointment came into effect on 5 October 2020.

2.  The Expert Committee is chaired by Associate Professor
Benjamin Ong, Senior Advisor to the Director of Medical Services,
Ministry of Health, and Senior Vice President (Health Education and
Resources), National University of Singapore. It comprises experts in
infectious diseases, immunology and other relevant fields. The Expert
Committee will leverage scientific and clinical expertise to assess
vaccine candidates, and recommend the appropriate vaccines for use
against COVID-19 in Singapore when they become available. Please refer
to the Annex for the composition of the Expert Committee.

3.  The Expert Committee will consider the most up-to-date
information and assessment of COVID-19 vaccines, including closely
monitoring the global vaccine development landscape and stance of
authoritative agencies such as the World Health Organization (WHO). As
the latest clinical data of vaccine candidates emerges, the Expert
Committee will assess their safety, efficacy and suitability for use by
the different segments of Singapore’s population.  It will then make
recommendations on the administration of vaccines to specific segments
of the population and advise on the overall vaccination strategy for
Singapore.

4.  The Expert Committee convened their first meeting on 13
October 2020 and has met regularly in the past month to discuss the
profiles of various vaccine candidates, as well as the conditions for
their deployment in Singapore’s context.

5.  Expert Committee chairperson A/Prof Benjamin Ong said,
“Globally, as more vaccine candidates are made available for clinical
use, ensuring that vaccines are safe and effective will be a top
priority. There are many factors to consider as not all vaccines would
be suitable, safe and effective for all segments of our population. The
Expert Committee will need to closely study the safety and clinical data
as they become available, while taking into account our local context,
so that we can assess and recommend an appropriate and holistic
vaccination strategy that can be put in place for the Singapore
population. The safety of Singaporeans is our top priority, and the
diverse range of expertise among my colleagues in the Expert Committee
will put us in good stead as we deliberate on strategies for the
implementation of COVID-19 vaccination in Singapore.”

6.  Singapore has been actively monitoring the global progress
in COVID-19 vaccine development, and has taken steps to secure access to
a portfolio of vaccines for our population amidst expected strong global
demand. We are a strong supporter and active participant in driving the
work of the global COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX) Facility. On
top of our efforts through the COVAX Facility, we have further broadened
and diversified our COVID-19 vaccine portfolio with a number of
pharmaceutical companies which currently have vaccine candidates in
development, so as to improve our chances of securing a suitable vaccine
for Singapore.

7.  MOH will continue to closely track the progress of the
different COVID-19 vaccine candidates under development globally in the
coming months, and will provide further updates on our plans.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
12 NOVEMBER 2020
