Additional Precautionary Measures to Prevent Further Importation and
Spread of COVID-19 Cases



ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO PREVENT FURTHER IMPORTATION AND SPREAD OF COVID-19 CASES


Published Date: 13 Mar 2020

           Singapore will implement additional precautionary measures
to slow the transmission of the COVID-19 virus. These include travel
advisories against all non-essential travel and border restrictions for
Italy, France, Spain and Germany, as well as additional social
distancing measures within Singapore.

2.  The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19
outbreak a global pandemic on 11 March 2020, and called upon governments
around the world to do more to combat the virus. The WHO cited Singapore
as a country that has already taken proactive measures to contain the
virus. Still, as the co-chairs of the Multi-Ministry Taskforce said on
Tuesday, and as the Prime Minister warned in a national broadcast
yesterday, we must take additional measures, including further temporary
travel restrictions, to break the transmission of the virus.

3.  In the past two weeks, the number of cases of COVID-19
outside China has increased more than ten-fold, and the number of
affected countries has tripled. There are now more than 125,000 cases in
118 countries, and more than 4,000 deaths. In Singapore, as of 12 March,
almost 25% of our total number of confirmed cases were imported. Over
the past ten days alone, there have been 23 imported cases, or nearly a
third of all new cases. These included 13 cases with travel history to
European countries, and six cases from Indonesia.



TRAVEL ADVISORY

4.  In light of the rapid spread of the virus across Europe,
the Ministry of Health (MOH) advises Singaporeans to defer all
non-essential travel to Italy, France, Spain and Germany. The four
countries have had very high numbers of cases and very high rates of
increase. In addition, our existing advisory to defer all travel to
Hubei province in mainland China, and non-essential travel to the rest
of mainland China, Iran¹, Japan and the Republic of Korea, remains.

5.  Singaporeans are also advised to exercise caution when
travelling to all countries affected by COVID-19, especially those which
have exported cases (see Annex). These include our neighbouring
countries, like Indonesia and the Philippines, and those further afield,
like the United Kingdom. The global picture is evolving, and there could
be other countries that may be affected.

6.  Singaporeans who have made plans to travel during the
upcoming March school holidays are advised to review their plans based
on the latest advisory. All travellers will be subject to the prevailing
travel measures imposed by their destination countries, and those
imposed by Singapore upon their return home. As Singapore’s measures
will evolve according to the global situation, Singaporeans should check
the MOH website (https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19) for the latest
measures.



BORDER RESTRICTIONS

7.  Given the increase in imported cases from European
countries, we are putting in place new border restrictions.

a.  From 15 March 2020, 2359 hours, all new visitors with
recent travel history to Italy, France, Spain and Germany within the
last 14 days will not be allowed entry into Singapore, or transit
through Singapore.

b.  From 15 March 2020, 2359 hours, the following
returning groups will be issued with a Stay-Home Notice (SHN):

i.  Residents (Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents)
with recent travel history to Italy, France, Spain and Germany within
the last 14 days; and

ii.  Long-term pass holders (including work passes, Student’s
Pass, Dependant’s Pass, and Long-term Visit Pass) with recent travel
history to Italy, France, Spain and Germany within the last 14 days.

8.  Persons under SHN will have to remain in their place of
residence at all times for 14 days after returning to Singapore.

9.  As previously announced, residents and long-term pass
holders returning from mainland China (outside Hubei province²), Iran,
and the Republic of Korea will continue to be issued a 14-day SHN upon
return to Singapore.

10.  All these border restrictions are temporary, and will be
reviewed regularly based on the global situation.



ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES

11.  Since 4 March 2020, travellers entering Singapore and
exhibiting fever and/or other symptoms of respiratory illness are
required to undergo a COVID-19 swab test at the checkpoint, regardless
of travel history. With immediate effect, all such travellers will also
be issued a 14-day SHN³, which they will have to serve in full even if
the result of the swab test is negative. Those who meet the clinical
suspect case definition will be conveyed to the hospital for follow-up.

12.  With immediate effect, Singapore will cease port calls for
all cruise vessels.



SOCIAL DISTANCING

13.  In order to reduce the risk of local transmission, we will
introduce requirements and advisories for events and gatherings,
workplaces and public venues. This is to limit large crowds gathering in
close proximity over a prolonged duration.



Advisory for events and gatherings

14.  All ticketed cultural, sports and entertainment events,
with 250 participants or more, are to be deferred or cancelled. For
events that have already been committed (e.g. tickets sold), organisers
must demonstrate that satisfactory precautionary measures have been put
in place before they can proceed.

15.  For all other mass gatherings including private functions
and religious services, organisers are advised to put in place the
following precautions:

a.  Reduce the scale of events to below 250 participants where
possible;

b.  Reduce the crowding of participants and improve
ventilation. For example, participants could be seated at least a metre
apart from one another, and be advised to reduce contact with others
(e.g. avoid shaking hands);

c.  Put in place temperature and health screening measures,
as well as turn away persons who are unwell; and

d.  Put in place measures to facilitate contact tracing if
needed, such as obtaining contact details of participants.

16.  Participants are also advised to practise social
responsibility - monitor their own health condition and avoid attending
gatherings and events if unwell.



Advisory for workplaces

17.  Employers are advised to put in place measures to reduce
close contact where feasible. For example, employers should implement
tele-commuting and video-conferencing where possible, as well as stagger
work hours, and allow employees to commute at off-peak hours. Seating in
meeting rooms and work stations could also be spaced apart.



Advisory for public venues

18.  Owners/ tenants of venues which are accessible to the
public are advised to put in place measures to reduce close contact by
patrons/customers, where possible. For instance:

a.  Dining venues could set seats at least a metre apart;

b.  Entertainment venues and tourist attractions (e.g.
casinos, cinemas, theme parks, museums, and galleries) could limit the
number of visitors at any one time, and/or increase spacing among
visitors; and

c.  Sports centres with indoor facilities (e.g. gyms, private
academies) could limit the number of patrons, introduce physical
separation measures, increase the frequency of cleaning, as well as
issue advisories to reduce unnecessary contact, and practise public
hygiene.

19.  The above advisories for events, gatherings, workplaces and
public venues will be subject to further review based on the global
situation.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 MARCH 2020

¹ The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' advisory issued on 8 January 2020
against travelling to or remaining in Iran due to rising tensions in the
Middle East remains in place.
² Persons returning from Hubei province are subject to quarantine.
³ Places where foreign visitors serve out their SHN period can include
hotels.

