22 More Cases Discharged, 10 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



22 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 10 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 02 Oct 2020

      As of 2 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 10 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES
All new cases today are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance.

++
|  |
++
|  |
++
|  |
++
|  |
++

A) IMPORTED CASES: 5 (1 Singaporean, 1 Permanent Resident, 1 Work Permit
holder, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder, 1 Short-Term Visit Pass holder)
Amongst the 5 imported cases, 1 (Case 57940) is a Singaporean and
another (Case 57938) is a Singapore Permanent Resident who returned to
Singapore from India on 18 September and 20 September. Another case
(Case 57939) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived from
Indonesia on 18 September. She was allowed entry into Singapore as her
parent is a Singaporean. The remaining cases are a Work Permit holder
(Case 57936) currently employed in Singapore who arrived from Indonesia
on 20 September, and a Dependant’s Pass holder (Case 57933) who arrived
from India on 16 September.
All of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
arrival in Singapore, and were tested while serving their SHN at
dedicated facilities.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Work Permit holder)
There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
57941 was detected as a result of our Rostered Routine Testing of
workers in the construction, marine and process sectors who are living
outside the dormitories, even though he is asymptomatic. Epidemiological
investigations of the case are in progress. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the case have been isolated and placed on
quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their quarantine
period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct
serological tests for his household contacts to determine if he could
have been infected by them.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained stable at
an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at an
average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 4
Amongst the 4 cases residing in dormitories, 1 had been identified
earlier as a contact of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. He was tested during quarantine to
determine his status.
The remaining 3 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such
as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in
dormitories. This allows us to pick up cases early, including
asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to
prevent further transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and
isolating the close contacts.
2.    Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.    Of the new cases, 90% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4.    Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.    22 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,534 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
6.    There are currently 48 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 185 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from complications due to
COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 OCTOBER 2020


