Three more confirmed cases of novel coronavirus infection in Singapore



THREE MORE CONFIRMED CASES OF NOVEL CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 07 Feb 2020

              As of 7 February 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
has confirmed three additional cases of 2019 novel coronavirus
(2019-nCoV) infection in Singapore. While contact tracing is underway,
there are not yet any links to previous cases or travel history to
China.
ABOUT THE CONFIRMED CASES
Case 31
2.               The case is a 53 year-old male Singapore Citizen with
no recent travel history to China, but had been in Malaysia on 6, 11 and
17 January 2020. He is currently warded in an isolation room at Changi
General Hospital (CGH).
3.               He reported onset of symptoms on 23 January, and had
visited a general practitioner (GP) clinic on the same day. He visited
another GP clinic on 28 January, and was admitted to CGH on 1
February. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 6
February at about 11pm.
4.               He stays at Tampines Street 24. Prior to hospital
admission, he had been to The Life Church and Missions Singapore (146B
Paya Lebar Road) and had gone visiting family and friends during Chinese
New Year.
Case 32
5.               Case 32 is a 42 year-old female Singapore Citizen who
has no recent travel history to mainland China. She is currently warded
in an isolation room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases
(NCID).
6.               She reported onset of symptoms on 2 February and was
admitted to Parkway East Hospital on 5 February. Subsequent test results
confirmed 2019-nCoV infection on 6 February at about 11pm.
7.               Prior to hospital admission, she worked at Victoria
Junior College, but had not interacted with her colleagues and students
after onset of symptoms. She stays at Elias Road and had visited Changi
Airport and Singapore Zoo.

Case 33
8.               Case 33 is a 39 year-old female Singapore Citizen who
has no recent travel history to mainland China, but who had been in
Malaysia from 22 to 29 January. She is currently warded in an isolation
room at Sengkang General Hospital (SKH).
9.               She reported that she had developed symptoms on 30
January, and went to the emergency department at SKH on 2 February where
she was admitted. Subsequent test results confirmed 2019-nCoV infection
on 6 February at about 11pm.
Case 30 (announced on 6 February)
10.           Case 30 is a 27 year-old male Singapore Citizen who had
attended a private business meeting at Grand Hyatt Singapore from 20 to
22 January, and was confirmed to have 2019-nCoV infection on 6 February
at about 2pm.
11.           He reported onset of fever on 21 January and visited a GP
clinic on 28 January. He sought treatment at another GP clinic on 3
February before being admitted to the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases on 6 February.
12.           Prior to hospital admission, he had gone to Far East
Square (19 China Street) and Junction 8 (9 Bishan Place), and stays at
Shunfu Road.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
13.           Amongst the confirmed cases, two have been discharged. Of
the remaining 31, most are stable or improving. Two are in critical
condition in the intensive care unit.
HEALTH ADVISORY
14.           Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
15.           All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.
16.           Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:
·       Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing
symptoms of illness;
·       Observe good personal hygiene;
·       Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
·       Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath;
·       Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
·       Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
17.           MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for suspect cases who have
recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more cases that will
need to be investigated.

 
