Promulgation of Regulations Under Infectious Diseases Act



PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS UNDER INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT


Published Date: 26 Mar 2020

    MOH has promulgated two sets of regulations under the Infectious
Diseases Act to give legal force to the safe distancing measures
announced by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce, and provide enhanced
enforcement for breaches of the Stay-Home Notice (SHN).
REGULATIONS ON STAY-HOME NOTICE (“SHN REGULATIONS”)
2.   It was previously announced that from 20 March 2020, 2359 hours,
all travellers, including Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and
Long Term Pass holders returning to Singapore, are issued a 14-day SHN
[1]. From 25 March, 2359 hours, returnees from the United Kingdom and
United States of America will serve their 14-day SHN in dedicated
facilities.
3.   Under the SHN Regulations,

a)  Anyone issued an SHN must not leave their place of accommodation for
the duration of the SHN.
b) Any individual who is issued a medical certificate by a medical
practitioner certifying that he/she has acute respiratory symptoms must
not, without reasonable excuse, leave the individual’s place of
accommodation for five days starting on the day the medical certificate
is issued.

4.   The penalty for an offence under the SHN Regulations is a fine of
up to $10,000 or imprisonment of up to six months or both. (Please refer
to Annex A for the SHN Regulations.)
REGULATIONS ON SAFE DISTANCING (“SAFE-DISTANCING REGULATIONS”)
5.     Stricter measures will come into effect from 26 March 2020, 2359
hours, to limit gatherings outside of work and school to 10 persons or
fewer, and ensure that physical distancing of at least one metre is
maintained in settings where interactions are non-transient [2].
6.   Under the Safe-Distancing Regulations, any person who is guilty of
an offence shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $10,000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to both. (Please
refer to Annex B for the Safe-Distancing Regulations.)

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 MARCH 2020
[1] Returning residents and Long Term Pass holders from Hubei province
(mainland China) will be quarantined at home or other suitable
facilities.
[2] The stricter safe distancing measures are detailed in MOH’s press
release on 24 March, “Tighter Measures to Minimise Further Spread of
COVID-19”.

