4 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



4 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 07 Oct 2020

          As of 7 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 4 new cases of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. All 4 reside in dormitories. In addition, there are 6
imported cases, who had all been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon
arrival. Amongst the new cases today, 8 are asymptomatic, and were
detected from our proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 imported
cases were symptomatic.
SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

Breakdown by

Breakdown by

Number of cases

Already in quarantine/ isolation before detection

Detected from surveillance

Symptomatic

Asymptomatic

Cases in the community

0

0

0

0

0

Cases residing in dormitories

4

1

3

0

4

Imported cases

6

6

0

2

4

Total

10

2.  Overall, the number of new cases in the community has
remained stable at an average of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. The
number of unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at an
average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will
continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected
through our surveillance programme.

3.  Of the new cases, 80% are imported or linked to known
cases/ clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.



CASE DETAILS

A)  CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0

There are no new cases in the community today.



B)  CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 4

Amongst the 4 cases residing in dormitories, 1 had been identified
earlier as a contact of previous cases, and had already been quarantined
to prevent further transmission. He was tested during quarantine to
determine his status.

The remaining 3 cases were detected through surveillance testing, such
as our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in
dormitories. This allows us to pick up cases early, including
asymptomatic ones, so that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to
prevent further transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and
isolating the close contacts.



C)  IMPORTED CASES: 6

There are 6 imported cases today, of whom 4 are asymptomatic. They had
all been placed on 14-day SHN upon arrival in Singapore, and were tested
while serving SHN at dedicated facilities.



4.  Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).



5.  Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts of the cases have been
isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and
end of their quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
We will also conduct serological tests for the close contacts to
determine if the cases could have been infected by them.

6.  MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the clusters at
S11 Dormitory @ Punggol (2 Seletar North Link) and the construction site
at 9 Penang Road/ 8 Loyang Crescent for the past two incubation periods
(i.e. 28 days), the clusters have now been closed.



LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND

7.  Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex A and Annex B for details.



UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES

8.  12 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged
from hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,624 have
fully recovered from the infection and have been discharged from
hospitals or community care facilities.

9.  There are currently 39 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 150 are isolated and cared for at
community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
7 OCTOBER 2020


