Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From United Kingdom and New
South Wales, Australia



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM UNITED KINGDOM AND NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA


Published Date: 22 Dec 2020

           The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation and will be tightening border measures given
the deteriorating situation in the United Kingdom, and resurgence in the
number of COVID-19 cases in New South Wales (NSW), Australia.

TRAVELLERS FROM NSW TO SERVE 7-DAY SHN AT PLACE OF RESIDENCE

2.  We had earlier announced that travellers from Australia
are allowed to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival, and if the PCR
test result is negative, they will be allowed to go about their
activities in Singapore, without a need to serve a Stay-Home Notice
(SHN).

3.  Given the increased cases observed in NSW, we will be
tightening border control measures for travellers with travel history to
New South Wales (NSW), Australia. From 23 DECEMBER 2020, 2359 HOURS:

a.  All travellers departing from Australia will be required to
declare their travel history at airline check-in prior to their flight
to Singapore.

b.  Singapore Citizens (SCs), Permanent Residents (PRs) and Long-Term
Pass holders entering Singapore with travel history to NSW, Australia
within the last 14 days before departure for Singapore, will be subject
to a 7-day SHN at their place of residence with a COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) test before the end of the SHN period.

c.  Short-term travellers holding an Air Travel Pass with travel
history to NSW, Australia, within the last 14 days before departure for
Singapore, will not be allowed to enter Singapore.

4.  All other travellers departing from Australia who have
been in Australia (excluding NSW) in the last 14 days prior to travel
will continue to be subject to a COVID-19 test upon arrival at the
airport, in lieu of their SHN.

RESTRICTING TRAVEL FROM UNITED KINGDOM

5.  Travellers with travel history to the UK within 14 days
prior to departure to Singapore are currently required to serve a 14-day
SHN at dedicated SHN facilities. Travellers who are not SCs or PRs are
also required to take a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours before
departure and present a valid negative COVID-19 test result as a
condition of approval to enter Singapore.

6.  There have been recent reports of a potentially more
contagious strain of the COVID-19 virus circulating in the UK. Officials
within the UK are also concerned about this new virus and have put in
place more stringent restrictions, including imposing a new lockdown in
London. To reduce the risk of spread to Singapore, we are putting in
place new border restrictions for travellers from UK for further
precaution. From 23 DECEMBER 2020, 2359 HOURS, until further notice:

a.  All long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with recent
travel history to the UK within the last 14 days will not be allowed
entry into Singapore, or transit through Singapore. This will also apply
to all those who had obtained prior approval for entry into Singapore.

b.  Returning SCs and PRs will be required to undergo a COVID-19 PCR
test upon arrival in Singapore, at the start of their 14-day SHN.

7.  While the strain has been suggested to be more
transmissible, there is currently insufficient evidence to determine if
this strain is associated with any change in disease severity, antibody
response or vaccine efficacy. These aspects are being investigated by
the UK authorities. The Ministry of Health will evaluate the data as it
emerges and review our border measures accordingly.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

8.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to
adjust our border measures to manage the risk of importation and
transmission to the community. Any changes to border measures will be
updated on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the
website to check for the most updated border measures before entering
Singapore and be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border
measures upon entry, including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN
facilities, tests and treatment.

9.           All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their
travel history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false
declarations
