Polyclinic In Bidadari to Be Located Along Upper Aljunied Road



POLYCLINIC IN BIDADARI TO BE LOCATED ALONG UPPER ALJUNIED ROAD


Published Date: 19 Oct 2020

_Polyclinic is also co-located with a nursing home in an integrated
development
_

      The upcoming polyclinic in Bidadari will be located along Upper
Aljunied Road and developed as part of an integrated development with a
nursing home to serve the needs of residents in the vicinity of the
upcoming Bidadari estates. This was announced by Dr Janil Puthucheary,
Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ministry of
Communications and Information this morning. The new polyclinic in
Bidadari is expected to be ready by 2027.
2.    The new integrated development is located near the Alkaff Lakeview
HDB cluster along Upper Aljunied Road. The nearest MRT station is
Woodleigh station at about 500m away. Please refer to Annex A for the
location map.
3.    The new polyclinic in Bidadari will be operated by the National
Healthcare Group Polyclinics and will provide primary care services to
the residents in Bidadari and surrounding estates. Services provided
will include medical treatment for acute conditions, chronic disease
management, women and child health services, allied health services, as
well as radiological, laboratory and pharmacy services. The new
polyclinic was announced at MOH’s Committee of Supply Debate in March
this year.
4.    As part of primary care transformation efforts, polyclinics have
introduced team-based care models to enhance chronic disease management.
The polyclinic in Bidadari will likewise offer teamlet care, where
patients with chronic conditions are assigned to a dedicated,
multi-disciplinary care team. This facilitates continuity of care for
patients, and enables a strong patient-team relationship.
5.    Besides improving the accessibility of primary care services, MOH
also aims to ensure a good spread of long term care facilities across
Singapore. The nursing home to be co-located with the polyclinic will
serve the needs of seniors and their loved ones, especially those living
in the Central part of Singapore. Given the accessibility of the nursing
home, families in the region will be able to visit their loved ones with
convenience and continue to be involved in their care at the nursing
home. In addition, the co-location of the nursing home with the
polyclinic will facilitate synergy between the healthcare facilities
through sharing of services to support seniors and polyclinic patients
as their care needs evolve.
6.    As our population ages and chronic disease burden prevalence
increases, it is important that Singaporeans continue to have access to
affordable healthcare and long term care in the community. MOH has been
expanding the polyclinic network and capacity to strengthen our primary
care infrastructure, through the development of new polyclinics and the
redevelopment of existing ones. Similarly, we will continue to ensure
that frail seniors with care needs and limited family support will have
access to suitable long term care across the island.
7.   Including the polyclinic in Bidadari, Singaporeans can look forward
to 12 new polyclinics in the coming years – in Bukit Panjang, Eunos,
Kallang, Sembawang, Tampines North, Khatib, Serangoon, Kaki Bukit,
Tengah, Yew Tee and Bishan. By 2030, there will be a total of 32
polyclinics in Singapore.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 OCTOBER 2020

