Continued Stringent Implementation & Enforcement of Circuit Breaker
Measures



CONTINUED STRINGENT IMPLEMENTATION & ENFORCEMENT OF CIRCUIT BREAKER MEASURES


Published Date: 14 Apr 2020

1.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has introduced stringent measures as
part of a nation-wide circuit breaker to break the chain of COVID-19
transmissions since 7 April 2020. The Taskforce will now make the
wearing of masks mandatory for anyone leaving their home. Safe
distancing measures for workplaces that continue to operate will also be
enhanced.

UPDATE ON CIRCUIT BREAKER MEASURES

2.     Since the start of the circuit breaker measures, Singaporeans
have made significant efforts to stay home and reduce movements and
interactions except for essential purposes. Public transport ridership
and traffic volume have dropped by more than 70%. Similarly, close to
80% of the workforce are now working from home. There are visibly fewer
people outside of their homes, with only an estimated 30% to 40% of
individuals out and about on weekdays, and 20% to 30% on weekends.

3.     Nearly 3,000 enforcement officers and ambassadors from over 30
agencies have been deployed daily to public spaces in HDB estates across
the island, to ensure that safe distancing measures are observed. Crowd
control measures were put in place to limit entry to popular parks and
wet markets. At some of these hotspots, foot traffic has come down by up
to 50%. Public spaces including stadiums, playgrounds, fitness corners,
beaches, open fields and elderly activity corners have been cordoned off
to prevent gatherings. Drones have also been deployed in selected parks
and nature areas to monitor visitorship. Specific areas such as open
lawns and park connectors were temporarily closed when crowds were high.

4.     Since 7 April 2020, more than 6,200 warnings and over 500 fines
were issued to individuals who flouted the safe distancing measures.
Strict enforcement will continue against individuals as well as
essential service providers, owners or occupiers who flout the rules,
putting others in danger. Composition offers of $300 for the first
offence and $1000 for the second offence will be issued, and egregious
cases will be prosecuted in court.

5.     Enforcement officers have observed greater compliance with safe
distancing measures over the past week. However, there is no room for
complacency. While the rise in number of cases daily can be largely
attributed to foreign workers living in the dormitories, there are still
cases arising from within the community, including at workplace
premises. We must make this circuit breaker period count, and tighten
where there are areas of risk.

MASK UP WHEN OUT

6.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce updated its guidance on masks on 3
April 2020 based on the latest scientific advice. We have also completed
the distribution of reusable masks to residents in Singapore.

7.     The Taskforce has now decided to take a further step and make it
mandatory for all persons to wear a mask when leaving their homes. The
general public is still advised to stay home and avoid going out.
However, for those who need to go out for work or to purchase
necessities, it is difficult to avoid contact completely, including with
infected persons who may not show any symptoms. The wearing of masks is
therefore an important precaution we can all take.

8.     Everyone must wear a mask when outside of their homes. This
applies on public transport, taxis, private hire cars, walking to or at
markets, and also for essential workers at all workplace premises,
whether they are frontline staff (such as food handlers, cashiers and
bus drivers) or performing back office functions (such as data entry
personnel and payroll executives). Individuals may remove their mask
while engaging in strenuous exercise outdoors (e.g. running/ jogging),
but they must put it back on after completing exercise. Mask-wearing is
not recommended for young children below the age of two for child safety
reasons. Medical experts have also advised that some groups may have
difficulties wearing a mask, including children with special needs and
young children aged two and above, and we will exercise flexibility in
enforcement for these groups.

9.     This requirement will be in effect during this circuit breaker
period. First-time offenders will be issued composition offers of $300,
and repeat offenders will face higher fines or prosecution in court for
egregious cases.

ENHANCED MEASURES FOR WORKPLACES WHICH REMAIN OPEN

10.     When we started the Circuit Breaker, the Multi-Ministry
Taskforce was mindful not to disrupt supply chains and essential
services needed for daily living.  We have also cleared many of the
appeal cases over the past week, so that the key upstream suppliers to
essential firms will not be impacted.  We will take a closer look to
tighten the list of companies that are still operating. We aim to
further reduce the number of workers that have to continue to go to
work, so that more can stay at home, and we can minimise people
movement.

11.     For workplace premises which remain open, cross-deployment or
movement of workers across different workplace premises (e.g. different
branches) will be disallowed. Employers and on-site managers must ensure
that this is complied with, to avoid transmissions across workplace
premises. There should also be no physical interactions between teams
working in different locations. For essential service providers who need
to move between different locations to perform their services (e.g. IT
support, maintenance, logistics, community nurses making house visits),
safe distancing measures must be complied to.

12.     Employers and on-site managers are also required to implement
strict safe distancing measures within their premises, and for
company-arranged transport, to reduce social interactions among workers
during their course of work, as well as during their meal and break
times. Employers and on-site managers should ensure that workers on-site
are wearing masks.

13.     The Ministry of Manpower and other enforcement agencies will
continue with inspections and take appropriate enforcement actions
against non-compliant workplaces. First-time offences by essential
service providers, owners or occupiers will be issued composition offers
of $1000, and repeat offenders will face higher fines or prosecution in
court for egregious cases. Essential service providers may be required
to suspend their operations should any of their staff working on the
premises become infected.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

14 APRIL 2020
