Comprehensive Medical Strategy for Covid-19



COMPREHENSIVE MEDICAL STRATEGY FOR COVID-19


Published Date: 28 Apr 2020

               The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has a comprehensive medical
strategy to ensure that individuals infected with COVID-19 receive
prompt and quality medical treatment. Since the start of the outbreak, a
total of 1,095 COVID-19 patients, out of 14,423 confirmed cases, have
recovered and been discharged. The number of COVID-19 related deaths has
remained low, at 14 deaths.[1] Our healthcare workers will continue to
do their best to keep the complications and deaths arising from COVID-19
as low as possible.
MEDICAL PLAN
2.             The clinical and scientific data from managing COVID-19
patients, as well as the current epidemiological evidence on the
infection, have provided the bases for a comprehensive medical plan. The
plan guides the admission of patients into the appropriate tiered
facilities for medical care and support, the transfer of patients
between these facilities according to their needs, and the discharge of
patients who are well and no longer infectious. The aim here is to
deploy our medical resources optimally so as to prevent our healthcare
system from being overwhelmed.
3.             The majority of patients picked up by our testing have
mild or no symptoms. Such patients are generally admitted to a Community
Care Facility (CCF) where most recover with minimal intervention.
Patients in these facilities are monitored closely in case they need to
be transferred to hospital for better management and support. Those with
severe conditions are cared for in Intensive Care Units (ICU). Such
patients may display serious symptoms or have other risk factors and
co-morbidities. As of 27 April, 12pm, there are 1,451 COVID-19 cases in
hospitals, and 20 in ICU.
4.             Infectious disease experts have studied the progression
of COVID-19 infections in patients. Patients who remain well at Day 14
of illness are likely to remain clinically stable and generally do not
require any further medical care. We transfer such patients to a
step-down Community Recovery Facility (CRF). Those who have been
previously admitted into our hospitals may also be transferred to a CRF
when they recover from their acute illness.
5.             To support this plan, we have established a number of
CCFs and CRFs. We have also augmented our healthcare workforce and
deployed them to provide the appropriate level of care in the different
facilities and settings, according to the needs of patients.
SCALING UP OF MEDICAL FACILITIES
6.             Persons with acute respiratory infections but are
clinically well are issued with five-day medical certificates and are
asked to isolate themselves at home. Those who meet the clinical case
definitions for COVID-19 are tested and asked to self-isolate at home as
they await their test results. Those who are unable to self-isolate in
their homes can do so in a Swab Isolation Facility (SIF) while awaiting
their test results. To date, we have built a capacity of 4,000 beds in
the SIFs, in locations such as Civil Service Club @ Loyang and hotels.
Those who are clinically unwell are referred immediately to hospitals
for further assessment and treatment.
7.             The CCF capacity has been rapidly increased, starting
with about 500 beds at D’Resort NTUC to about 10,000 spaces currently,
including at the Singapore EXPO and Changi Exhibition Centre. We are
continuing to expand our CCFs, aiming to double their capacity to 20,000
beds by end-June. This includes the CCFs we are setting up within some
of the migrant worker dormitories so that workers with mild symptoms can
be quickly isolated and monitored, with the medical posts deployed in
the dormitories providing the necessary medical support.
8.             We now have a capacity of over 2,000 beds in CRF sites,
situated in several SAF camps. We have started to move some patients
from CCF to CRF and will monitor their progress with a view to scaling
up the CRF to accommodate more patients. We intend to ramp up our CRF
capacity to more than 10,000 beds by end-June.
9.             To ensure that there is available hospital capacity to
care for COVID-19 patients, public hospitals have postponed non-urgent
elective procedures. New capacity in isolation wards and intensive care
units have been created by repurposing existing beds and hospital
facilities, and acquiring additional medical equipment such as
ventilators. In addition, public hospitals have established
collaborations with private sector healthcare providers to provide
further treatment capacity, and to help care for existing patients with
chronic medical conditions. Private hospitals continue to support our
public hospitals in attending to patients with less serious acute
clinical conditions. Healthcare institutions have also started
teleconsultation services for follow-up on their patients.
AUGMENTING OUR HEALTHCARE WORKFORCE
10.             This expansion of our medical facilities has to be
supported by a healthcare workforce. We have taken a two-pronged
approach: One, we have tapped on private sector healthcare
professionals, retirees and volunteers; and two, we are making full use
of technology as an enabler.
11.             The Ministry of Health (MOH) has sought the support of
healthcare professionals in the private sector, and encouraged them to
join the newly launched SG Healthcare Corps. Since its launch on 7
April, about 3,000 healthcare professionals across all job groups have
signed up. MOH will be expanding the SG Healthcare Corps to include more
healthcare professionals, as well as non-healthcare professionals. We
are also re-deploying manpower from industries affected by COVID-19 to
enable them to take on new roles in our hospitals. For example,
Singapore Airlines (SIA) cabin crew are filling the role of care
ambassadors. They provide administrative support and attend to patients,
under the supervision of nursing staff.
12.             We are also leveraging technology to deliver the same or
enhanced outcomes with less time and effort. For instance,
round-the-clock care in CCFs is made possible by the use of medical
kiosks and teleconsultations. Devices such as pulse oximeters and health
apps are used to monitor patient well-being.
WHOLE-OF-SOCIETY EFFORT
13.             We have been able to mobilise our medical facilities and
provide such enhanced support within a very short time because of a
Whole-of-Society effort, bringing together government agencies and the
private sector.

-   For example, the CCF site at Singapore Expo was made possible
    through the hard work of people across multiple organisations
    including Temasek Holdings, Singapore Expo (as venue operator),
    Surbana Jurong (to set up the facility), IHiS (tech enablement such
    as care management, electronic medical records and vital signs
    monitoring), Resorts World Sentosa (as managing agent), PSA (project
    management), ST Engineering (tech solutions), Certis Cisco (to
    provide security), Parkway Pantai, Woodlands Health Campus and the
    Singapore Armed Forces (to provide the medical teams).
-   Likewise, the CCF at Changi Exhibition Centre was set up and run by
    MINDEF-affiliated organisations, along with partners such as Experia
    Events (venue owner), Surbana Jurong (as design consultant), the
    Defence Science and Technology Agency as well as DSO National
    Laboratories (tech solution providers like temperature screening and
    cleaning of PPEs), ST Engineering (to provide robots for food
    delivery), Mandarin Oriental (managing agent) and Raffles Medical
    Group (for medical care).



14.             We appreciate the contributions of everyone who has
worked round the clock to make all this happen, and who are continuing
to serve in different roles in our national medical plan. Through their
combined efforts, we are able to take care of all infected patients, and
ensure we have sufficient healthcare capacity for the longer term.
COVID-19 may be with us for a long time, and we must have sufficient
capacity to care for everyone who is ill. The expanded healthcare
facilities and manpower will put us on a strong footing as we plan ahead
for the gradual relaxation of the circuit breaker measures.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] As of 27 April 2020, 12pm.
