Government Accepts Recommendations of Expert Committee On Covid-19
Vaccination



GOVERNMENT ACCEPTS RECOMMENDATIONS OF EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION


Published Date: 27 Dec 2020

1.The government has accepted in full the recommendations of the Expert
Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination on the overall COVID-19 vaccination
strategy for Singapore, and will begin vaccinating healthcare workers
progressively from 30 December 2020.
2. The Expert Committee was convened by the Ministry of Health (MOH) in
October 2020 to make recommendations to the government on Singapore’s
COVID-19 vaccination strategy, including ensuring the safe and effective
use of COVID-19 vaccines in Singapore’s population groups. It submitted
its full set of overall framework recommendations and its detailed
recommendations specific to the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19
Vaccines to the government on 24 December 2020.
3. As announced by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on 14 December 2020, the
government has made provision for all Singaporeans and long-term
residents in Singapore to be able to get vaccinated by end-2021, if
there are no unforeseen disruptions to vaccine shipments. To ensure the
accessibility of the vaccine and enable us to achieve a higher rate of
vaccination for the population, this vaccination will be free.¹
4. Only vaccines that meet strict standards of safety, quality and
effectiveness will be used for our population. The Pfizer-BioNTech
COVID-19 vaccine had earlier received authorisation by the Health
Sciences Authority under the Pandemic Special Access Route, and the
Expert Committee had also reviewed and endorsed its use in Singapore in
individuals aged 16 years and above.
5. Singapore received the first shipment of vaccines from
Pfizer-BioNTech on 21 December 2020, and subsequent COVID-19 vaccine
stocks are expected to arrive in Singapore in batches over several
months. Vaccination will therefore take place in a progressive manner,
with priority given to the following groups, as recommended by the
Expert Committee:
A. PERSONS AT HIGH RISK OF BEING INFECTED BY COVID-19, INCLUDING
HEALTHCARE WORKERS AND WORKERS AT THE FRONTLINE OF OUR NATIONAL COVID-19
RESPONSE. We agree with the Expert Committee that there is a duty to
protect these workers who place themselves at higher risk of infection
in the course of serving our population, so as to ensure the continued
effective functioning of our healthcare system, and our national systems
for preventing and containing disease spread.
B. PERSONS WHO ARE MOST VULNERABLE TO SEVERE DISEASE AND COMPLICATIONS
IF THEY FALL ILL WITH COVID-19, INCLUDING THE ELDERLY AND PERSONS WITH
MEDICAL COMORBIDITIES. We will start with vaccinating those 70 years old
and above as they have more medical co-morbidities, and tend to have
worse health outcomes than those aged 60 to 69 years old if infected
with COVID-19. Protecting such persons minimises COVID-19 related
mortality and morbidity, and ensures that our healthcare system will
continue to have the capacity to care for the overall health of all
Singaporeans.
6. We will begin the vaccination exercise with healthcare workers at the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) on 30 December 2020, and
subsequently roll out to more healthcare institutions in the subsequent
weeks. Public healthcare institutions – including acute hospitals,
community hospitals and polyclinics – as well as private hospitals, will
progressively arrange for their staff to be vaccinated within their
respective premises.
7. We aim to begin vaccinating the elderly, starting with those aged 70
years and above, from February 2021. Thereafter we will vaccinate other
Singaporeans and long-term residents who are medically eligible for
vaccination. More details will be shared in due course.
8. Comprehensive vaccination coverage in the population will ensure that
our population is protected from COVID-19. This will also indirectly
protect those who cannot be vaccinated due to medical reasons. In the
longer term, this will enable us to re-open further both as a society
and economy, and expedite our recovery from the pandemic. While COVID-19
vaccination will be voluntary, we strongly encourage everyone who is
medically eligible for vaccination to get vaccinated when the vaccine is
offered. While the current number of cases in the community remains low,
the risk for further importation of COVID-19 and community spread will
increase as we move into Phase Three and given the global COVID-19
situation. This is especially important in the face of reports surfacing
globally about more transmissible strains.
9. Vaccination is not a silver bullet that can end the pandemic
immediately, but it is a key enabler to getting us back to a safer state
of affairs. It will complement other existing key enablers – safe
management measures, testing and contact tracing – which will continue
to be necessary in helping us to mitigate any spread and keep community
transmission low. We seek the cooperation of all Singaporeans to
continue to remain vigilant and disciplined in our fight against
COVID-19, by observing safe distancing and safe management measures, and
wearing a mask when out of the home. If we all work together, we can
look forward to a safer and healthier 2021.
10. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce would like to put on record our thanks
to the Chairman, Associate Professor Benjamin Ong, and members of the
Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination, who have submitted a
comprehensive set of recommendations. As information on more vaccines
becomes available, we look forward to further recommendations by the
Expert Committee on subsequent population groups to be vaccinated.
[1] For Singaporeans and long-term residents in Singapore, which
includes long-term work-permit holders.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
27 DECEMBER 2020
