Public Consultation On Medishield Life Review



PUBLIC CONSULTATION ON MEDISHIELD LIFE REVIEW


Published Date: 29 Sep 2020

        As part of an ongoing review of MediShield Life benefits and
premiums, the MediShield Life Council will conduct a public consultation
to seek views from the public on the preliminary recommendations and
suggestions for enhancements to the scheme. The public consultation will
be held from 29 September to 20 October 2020.
KEEPING HEALTHCARE AFFORDABLE FOR SINGAPOREANS
2.       MediShield Life is a basic health insurance plan launched in
November 2015 to protect all Singaporeans against large medical bills
regardless of pre-existing conditions, for life. The MediShield Life
Council was appointed by the Minister for Health to provide
recommendations on the policy and scheme parameters of MediShield Life,
and to review its administration. This is the first major review of the
scheme since its launch, and the changes are expected to be implemented
in early 2021.
3.       Mrs Fang Ai Lian, Chairman of the MediShield Life Council said,
“MediShield Life plays a key role in ensuring our healthcare services
remain affordable and gives Singaporeans greater peace of mind. We have
to periodically review and update the scheme benefits and premiums to
keep pace with evolving medical practice, healthcare cost inflation and
actual claims experience, so that it continues to provide assurance for
Singaporeans while remaining sustainable. As the Council undertakes the
review, we invite Singaporeans to share their ideas and views through
the public consultation so that MediShield Life will continue to benefit
policyholders.”
PRELIMINARY RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE MEDISHIELD LIFE COUNCIL
4.       MediShield Life was designed based on two key considerations:
(a) provide better protection to Singaporeans, while (b) keeping
premiums affordable. These considerations must be balanced carefully, as
payouts are ultimately funded through premiums to ensure that MediShield
Life remains sustainable.
5.      Guided by these considerations, the MediShield Life Council has
identified preliminary enhancements in three broad areas:
_(A) REFRESHING AND REFINING CLAIM LIMITS TO PROVIDE BETTER COVERAGE
_
6.      MediShield Life claim limits should be refreshed to cover 9 in
10 subsidised bills, and should be reviewed more regularly to ensure
that they offer adequate protection in light of inflation and medical
advancements. In addition, the Council proposes the following
refinements:
i. Introduce treatment-specific claim limits for community hospital care
and outpatient radiotherapy to improve coverage for patients receiving
sub-acute care [1] or costlier outpatient radiotherapy.
ii. Raise the policy year claim limit from $100,000 to $150,000, to
better protect Singaporeans against exceptionally large bills arising
from long or multiple periods of hospitalisation during the year.
_(B) ENHANCEMENTS TO SUPPORT LARGER HEALTHCARE TRANSFORMATION
_
7.    In line with larger healthcare transformation efforts to keep
healthcare costs sustainable, the MediShield Life Council recommends
enhancements to better support Singaporeans who can be more
appropriately cared for in the community or at home, to reduce the need
for expensive hospital care:
i. Introduce higher claim limits for daily ward and treatment charges
for the first two days of acute hospital stay, as higher charges tend to
be incurred during the first two days due to diagnostic tests and
investigations. This is to better support patients who can be discharged
home earlier.
ii. Lower the deductible [2] for day surgeries for older patients, so
that they are not discouraged from choosing a day surgery over an
inpatient stay.
_(C) OTHER PROPOSED ENHANCEMENTS
_
8.       The MediShield Life Council also proposes other enhancements:
i. Lower the pro-ration factor [3] for private hospitals to 25%, to
better reflect the actual charges and ensure greater parity in payouts
between subsidised and private patients.
ii. Remove the standard exclusions for treatments arising from attempted
suicide, intentional self-injury, drug addiction and alcoholism, as
treatment plays an increasingly important part in the support and
recovery of these patients.
REVIEW OF PREMIUMS AND PREMIUM AFFORDABILITY
9.      Premiums need to be adjusted periodically to support
enhancements that provide better coverage and higher payouts, and to
keep pace with healthcare cost inflation and actual claims experience.
In particular, MediShield Life payouts have increased by close to 40%
over the last four years, and the number of claimants has increased by
almost 30%. The MediShield Life Council recommends adjusting the
premiums this round as proposed by the actuary to ensure that the scheme
continues to be sustainable.
10.      As MediShield Life premiums had been kept constant for the
first five years in line with the Government’s commitment, premiums were
not adjusted when several benefit enhancements were implemented from
2018 to 2020. This round of adjustments will also take these
enhancements into account.
11.      Premium subsidies and support will continue to be extended to
lower- and middle-income households, Merdeka Generation and Pioneer
Generation seniors. Premiums will continue to be fully payable through
MediSave. Total household premiums after subsidies will be within annual
MediSave contributions and inflows for most typical households.
12.     Nonetheless, the Council notes that some Singaporeans may face
greater challenges with their premiums given the impact of COVID-19, and
has asked the Ministry of Health (MOH) to consider providing additional
assistance during this exceptional period. The Council is pleased to
note that MOH has committed additional support for Singaporeans over the
next two years. No one will lose MediShield Life coverage due to
financial difficulties.

13.        Please refer to Annex A for additional details on the
preliminary recommendations, and Annex B for illustrations of how the
preliminary recommendations can improve coverage for patients.
DETAILS ON PUBLIC CONSULTATION
14.       The MediShield Life Council would like to invite the public to
contribute their views and feedback on the preliminary recommendations.
The Council will carefully consider the feedback received from the
public consultation before making the final recommendations by end 2020.
The public consultation paper with details on the preliminary
recommendations can be viewed at
http://www.moh.gov.sg/e-consultation/mshl2020.
15.      All feedback can be submitted from 6.00pm, 29 September to
6.00pm, 20 October 2020 via the online feedback form at
http://www.moh.gov.sg/e-consultation/mshl2020, or mailed to the
following address: Quality Service, Ministry of Health, 16 College Road,
College of Medicine Building, Singapore 169854. All responses received
by the closing date will be carefully considered.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 SEPTEMBER 2020
[1] Sub-acute care at community hospitals is for complicated medical
conditions that require additional medical and nursing care, but at a
lower intensity compared to acute hospitals.
[2] Amount patient pays once every policy year before MediShield Life
payout starts. Ranges from $1,500 to $3,000, depending on age and ward.
[3] MediShield Life payouts are pegged at subsidised bills at public
hospitals, which are generally much lower than private hospital bills.
The pro-ration factor is applied on a private hospital bill to adjust it
down to the equivalent level of a subsidised bill, before the payout is
computed.
