Fifth Confirmed Imported Case of Wuhan Coronavirus Infection in
Singapore



FIFTH CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASE OF WUHAN CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 27 Jan 2020

         As of 27 January 2020, 2pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed another imported case of Wuhan coronavirus infection in
Singapore. Four confirmed cases were earlier announced by MOH.

2.       The fifth confirmed case is a 56 year-old female Chinese
national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore with her family on 18
January. She is currently warded in an isolation room at the National
Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) and her condition is stable.

3.       The case reported that she was asymptomatic during the flight
to Singapore. She subsequently developed symptoms on 24 January, and was
conveyed by ambulance to Tan Tock Seng Hospital on 26 January. She was
classified as a suspect case and immediately isolated at NCID.
Subsequent test results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 27
January. She has no known links to the other confirmed imported cases.

4.         Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed with her family
at their home at Ceylon Road. Since onset of symptoms on 24 January, the
case had remained in her home until she was conveyed to hospital on 26
January.

5.         MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and contact
tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with her.

UPDATE ON SUSPECT CASES

6.         As of 27 January, 12pm, 62 of the suspect cases have tested
negative for the Wuhan coronavirus, and four have tested positive (the
fifth case was confirmed at about 2pm). Test results for the remaining
57 cases are pending.

UPDATE ON CONTACT TRACING FOR CONFIRMED CASES

7.         Contact tracing for the confirmed cases is ongoing. Once
identified, MOH will closely monitor all close contacts. As a
precautionary measure, they will be quarantined for 14 days from their
last exposure to the patient. In addition, all other identified contacts
who have a low risk of being infected will be under active surveillance,
and will be contacted daily to monitor their health status.

8.         As of 27 January, 12pm, MOH has identified 115 close contacts
from the first four confirmed cases. Of the 86 who are still in
Singapore, 75 have been contacted and are being quarantined or isolated.
Efforts are ongoing to contact the remaining 11 close contacts.

HEALTH ADVISORY

9.        Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei Province
and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.

10.        All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.

11.        Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:

-   Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
    consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
-   Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing symptoms
    of illness;
-   Observe good personal hygiene;
-   Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling food
    or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
    respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
-   Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
    shortness of breath;
-   Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing, and
    dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
-   Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.

12.           MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who
have recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect
cases that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.


