Premise Ordered to Close Under Infectious Diseases Act



PREMISE ORDERED TO CLOSE UNDER INFECTIOUS DISEASES ACT


Published Date: 06 Apr 2020

          The Ministry of Health (MOH) has, on 6 April 2020, ordered the
immediate closure of UniverCell Mobile Market (located at 122 Serangoon
Road) for violations under Section 19 of the Infectious Diseases Act.

2.    On 5 April at about 1pm, officers from the Singapore Tourism Board
(STB) conducting safe distancing checks found the premises of UniverCell
Mobile Market to be severely overcrowded. The premises was also found to
lack crowd management controls, such as limiting the number of customers
in the premises and ensuring a minimum of one metre of spacing between
customers. Despite verbal warnings given by the STB officers, the
premises was again found to be overcrowded upon checks at about 7.15pm
on the same day. STB officers then issued an advisory letter. The crowd
only dispersed upon the subsequent arrival of Police Officers.

3.    In view that the lack of crowd management controls and repeated
overcrowding at UniverCell Mobile Market could lead to transmission of
the COVID-19 virus, MOH has ordered that the premises must immediately
close for a period of 14 days, and that the owners must cleanse and
disinfect the premises during this period. In addition, the owner must
take measures to ensure the abatement of any overcrowding or any other
conditions that may contribute to the likelihood of the outbreak or
spread of COVID-19 at the premises.

4.    The order had been served on UniverCell Mobile Market on 6 April
at 2pm, and the premise has since been closed. It will remain closed
after the 14-day period to 4 May (inclusive), under the elevated safe
distancing measures implemented by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce.

5.    MOH will not hesitate to take action against any individual or
business that violates the Infectious Diseases Act. We urge everyone to
observe the safe distancing measures that have been put in place, and to
be socially responsible.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 APRIL 2020
