1 New Case of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



1 NEW CASE OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 16 Oct 2020

       As of 16 October 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified 1 new case of locally transmitted COVID-19
infection. The case resides in a dormitory and there are no new cases in
the community. In addition, there are 8 imported cases, who had all been
placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or isolated upon arrival. Amongst the
new cases today, 7 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 2 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES

BREAKDOWN BY

BREAKDOWN BY

NUMBER OF CASES

ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE

SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

0

0

0

0

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

1

0

1

0

1

IMPORTED CASES

8

8

0

2

6

TOTAL

9

2.   Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained
stable at an average of fewer than 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks.
The number of unlinked cases in the community has decreased from an
average of fewer than 1 case per day in the week before, to none in the
past week. We will continue to closely monitor these numbers, as well as
the cases detected through our surveillance programme.
3.   Of the new cases, 89% are imported or linked to known cases/
clusters, while the rest are pending contact tracing.
CASE DETAILS
A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 0
There are no cases in the community today.
B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 1
There is 1 case residing in a dormitory today. He was detected through
our bi-weekly Rostered Routine Testing of workers living in dormitories.
This allows us to pick up cases early, including asymptomatic ones, so
that we are able to ring-fence them quickly to prevent further
transmission, by aggressively containing, tracing and isolating the
close contacts. His serological test result has come back positive,
which indicates likely past infection.
C) IMPORTED CASES: 8
Amongst the 8 imported cases, 2 (Cases 58055 and 58056) are Singaporeans
who returned from the Philippines. Another 4 (Cases 58060, 58061, 58062
and 58063) are Work Permit holders currently employed in Singapore who
arrived from Indonesia, the Philippines and Myanmar. They had all been
placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and were tested while serving
SHN.
The remaining 2 cases are Short-Term Visit Pass holders. Case 58058 was
allowed entry into Singapore from India as he was already receiving
medical care in Singapore and had returned for further treatment. He was
conveyed directly to a hospital and isolated upon arrival in Singapore
and was tested subsequently. The remaining case (Case 58059) is a crew
member of a ship which arrived from Indonesia. He had not disembarked
from the ship, and was swabbed on board after developing symptoms. He
had remained on the ship until his test result came back positive for
COVID-19 infection and was then conveyed to a hospital.
4.    Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report).
5.    Epidemiological investigations are in progress. In the meantime,
all the identified close contacts of the cases have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases. We will also
conduct serological tests for the close contacts to determine if the
cases could have been infected by them.
6.    MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to the cluster at
The Jovell construction site (27 Flora Drive) for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
7.   Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex A and Annex B for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
8.   20 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 57,784 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
9.   There are currently 30 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the intensive
care unit. 59 are isolated and cared for at community facilities. These
are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically well but still test
positive for COVID-19. This is the first time since 12 March 2020 that
the number of active cases (comprising cases who are hospitalised or at
community facilities) has fallen below 100. 28 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 OCTOBER 2020


