Two more confirmed imported cases of Wuhan coronavirus infection in
Singapore



TWO MORE CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASES OF WUHAN CORONAVIRUS INFECTION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 28 Jan 2020

          As of 28 January 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed an additional two imported cases of Wuhan coronavirus
infection in Singapore. Five confirmed cases were earlier announced by
MOH.
ABOUT THE CASES
Sixth case
2.               The six confirmed case is a 56 year-old male Chinese
national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore with his family on 19
January. He is currently warded in an isolation room at Changi General
Hospital (CGH) and his condition is stable.
3.               The case reported that he was asymptomatic during the
flight to Singapore. He subsequently developed symptoms on 25 January,
and self-presented to CGH in a private car on 26 January. He was
classified as a suspect case and immediately isolated. Subsequent test
results confirmed Wuhan coronavirus infection on 27 January at about
11pm.
4.               Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed with his
family at their home at Pasir Ris Grove.
Seventh case
5.               The seventh confirmed case is a 35
year-old male Chinese national from Wuhan who arrived in Singapore on 23
January with family and friends. He is currently warded in an isolation
room at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID) and his
condition is stable.
6.               The case reported that he was asymptomatic during the
flight to Singapore. He subsequently developed symptoms on 24 January,
and self-presented to Raffles Hospital via public transport on the same
day. He was classified as a suspect case and immediately conveyed to
NCID via an ambulance. Subsequent test results confirmed Wuhan
coronavirus infection on 27 January at about 11pm.
7.               Prior to hospital admission, the case stayed at Marina
Bay Sands Singapore located at 10 Bayfront Avenue, and had travelled on
public transport. The risk of infection from transient contact, such as
on public transport or in public places, is assessed to be low.
8.               MOH has initiated epidemiological investigations and
contact tracing to identify individuals who had close contact with the
cases. Both cases have no known links to the other confirmed imported
cases.
HEALTH ADVISORY
9.               Singaporeans are advised to defer all travel to Hubei
Province and all non-essential travel to Mainland China.
10.           All travellers should monitor their health closely for two
weeks upon return to Singapore and seek medical attention promptly if
they feel unwell. Travellers should inform their doctor of their travel
history. If they have a fever or respiratory symptoms (e.g. cough,
shortness of breath), they should wear a mask and call the clinic ahead
of the visit.
11.           Travellers and members of the public should adopt the
following precautions at all times:
·       Avoid contact with live animals including poultry and birds, and
consumption of raw and undercooked meats;
·       Avoid close contact with people who are unwell or showing
symptoms of illness;
·       Observe good personal hygiene;
·       Practise frequent hand washing with soap (e.g. before handling
food or eating, after going to toilet, or when hands are dirtied by
respiratory secretions after coughing or sneezing);
·       Wear a mask if you have respiratory symptoms such as a cough or
shortness of breath;
·       Cover your mouth with a tissue paper when coughing or sneezing,
and dispose the soiled tissue paper in the rubbish bin immediately; and
·       Seek medical attention promptly if you are feeling unwell.
12.           MOH will continue to monitor the situation closely. As
medical practitioners are on the lookout for cases with pneumonia who
have recently been in China, Singapore is likely to see more suspect
cases that will need to be investigated for possible links to the Wuhan
cluster.
