Update On the Hiv/aids Situation In Singapore 2020 (december 2020)



UPDATE ON THE HIV/AIDS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE 2020 (DECEMBER 2020)


Published Date: 01 Dec 2020

            A total of 220 newly diagnosed cases of human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections were reported among Singapore
residents[1] in the first 10 months (January – October) of 2020.

2.  The Ministry of Health (MOH) has analysed 125 cases of
these cases that were reported in the first 6 months (January – June) of
2020. Of the cases:

i.  90% were male;
'ii.  37% were 20-39 years and 42% were 40-59 years; and
iii.  54% had late-stage HIV infection[2] at diagnosis. This is
higher than the proportion of 49% for the same period last year.

3.  Sexual intercourse remains the main mode of HIV
transmission, accounting for 96% of the 125 cases. Homosexual
transmission was the mode of transmission for 46% of all cases, while
40% were from heterosexual transmission and 10% were from bisexual
transmission.

4.  About 58% of the newly reported cases were detected by
HIV tests done in the course of medical care. Another 22% were detected
during routine programmatic HIV screening[3] while 15% were detected
through self-initiated HIV screening. The rest were detected through
other types of screening[4]. A higher proportion of
homosexuals/bisexuals (21%) had their HIV infection detected via
self-initiated HIV screening compared to heterosexuals (8%).

5.  Annex A provides detailed data on the cases reported.
Information on newly reported HIV cases also is regularly updated on the
MOH website.

PUBLIC ADVISORY

6.  The most effective way to prevent HIV infection is to
remain faithful to one’s spouse/ partner and to avoid casual sex, and
sex with sex workers. Persons engaging in high-risk sexual behaviour,
such as having multiple sexual partners or engaging in casual or
commercial sex, are strongly advised to use condoms to reduce their risk
of HIV infection and other sexually-transmitted infections. Condoms
should be used consistently and correctly during every sexual encounter.

7.  MOH and the Health Promotion Board (HPB) urge individuals
at risk of HIV infection to go for regular HIV testing[5]. Regular HIV
testing can help diagnose an infected person at an early stage of the
infection. Early diagnosis allows for early treatment and care, and
provides the opportunity for those infected to learn about protecting
their partners from infection.  With early and effective treatment,
persons living with HIV can delay the onset of Acquired Immune
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) for many years and continue to lead an active
and productive life.

8.  HPB has been working with partner organisations to
conduct programmes and campaigns to encourage high-risk individuals to
take proactive measures, such as going for early and regular HIV
testing. Adopting a lifestyle-based approach, these programmes engage
such individuals via social settings to increase the targeted reach.

9.  Overcoming HIV/AIDS requires both individual and
community effort.  We can all do our part to create supportive
environments to encourage individuals at risk to come forward to be
tested early for HIV, and for those diagnosed to receive treatment. For
more information on HIV prevention, please refer to www.healthhub.sg.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Singapore citizens and Permanent Residents.

[2] CD4+ cell count of less than 200 per mm3 or AIDS-defining
opportunistic infections or both.

[3] Includes screening programmes for individuals with sexually
transmitted infections, hospital inpatients and those identified through
contact tracing.

[4] Includes modes such as general health screening as well as medical
checks for employment and insurance.

[5] HIV testing is available at polyclinics, private clinics and
hospitals. In addition, HIV testing can be done at ten anonymous HIV
test sites located across Singapore, where personal details are not
required when signing up for a HIV test.
