Enhancing Surveillance and Enforcement Efforts to Keep Covid-19 At Bay



ENHANCING SURVEILLANCE AND ENFORCEMENT EFFORTS TO KEEP COVID-19 AT BAY


Published Date: 24 Jul 2020

                 Singapore is five weeks into Phase Two of re-opening.
The Multi-Ministry Taskforce continues to closely monitor the COVID-19
situation, and take aggressive actions to prevent, detect and contain
local transmissions. While the number of community cases remains low, we
must remain vigilant and play our part to reduce the spread of infection
by exercising social responsibility and adhering to safe management
measures.
STEPPING UP SURVEILLANCE FOR EARLY DETECTION
2.               The Ministry of Health (MOH) has been stepping up its
surveillance, active case finding and containment efforts, in order to
detect and ringfence cases of infection as early as possible. Besides
placing close contacts of confirmed cases under quarantine, we also test
them at the start and end of their quarantine period to allow us to pick
up infection cases early. Where infection clusters arise, we undertake
swift action to quarantine and test close contacts, mount swab
operations, and suspend operations at the relevant facility if deemed
necessary.
3.               Over the past months, we have conducted seven such swab
operations associated with newly emergent workplace clusters, such as
Keppel Shipyard and Northpoint City. In all, more than 1,300 workers
from these two workplaces were tested. Two positive cases were
uncovered, in addition to six who were tested as persons under
quarantine as a result of their close contact with the confirmed cases.
4.               Beyond the workplaces, we also launched swab operations
to test individuals at retail premises frequented by multiple positive
cases. We recently tested close to 60 staff of Sheng Siong supermarket
at New World Centre and over 40 staff at Haniffa supermarket at Dunlop
Street and none tested positive. We also placed 58 households residing
at Block 111 Tampines Street 11 under phone surveillance and facilitated
COVID-19 testing for them and their visitors, as a precautionary measure
after there were confirmed cases in two households residing at the
block. So far, no new cases were detected.
5.               We have also been stepping up our general surveillance
efforts, and have been using a combination of different testing methods
to pick up any early signals of emerging clusters. The National
Environment Agency (NEA)’s waste-water testing allows us to monitor the
situation in densely populated residential premises. Currently
implemented at 34 workers dormitories, waste-water surveillance provides
continuous monitoring and supports our national effort in the prevention
and control of COVID-19 transmission in the dormitories. NEA has started
to trial waste-water monitoring in other settings and is planning to
progressively expand such surveillance to include more workers’
dormitories and other populous living quarters such as nursing homes and
hostels.
6.               Singaporeans must also play their part in keeping our
families and community safe. Since 1 July, we have been testing
individuals who are diagnosed with acute respiratory infection (ARI) at
first presentation to a doctor. This will allow us to detect infected
individuals early, and allow us to take the appropriate measures early
to stem further transmission. As clinical and scientific evidence shows
that an infected person is most infectious right before and immediately
after the start of symptoms, it is critical that everyone seeks care and
treatment early, and not delay or avoid seeing a doctor when they are
unwell.  Amongst the recent cases, there have been instances where
individuals continued to go out despite coming down with fever or
respiratory symptoms. We must all do our part to stop such behaviours as
they will put our family, friends and colleagues at risk of infection.
MEASURES TO ENHANCE SAFE DISTANCING AT HOTSPOTS
7.               Under Phase Two of re-opening, we have observed
crowding and poor adherence to safe distancing (SD) measures at some
hotspots. These include popular night spots, beaches, selected malls and
parks, as well as in HDB towns. For example, in recent weekends, crowds
were observed at selected stretches of the beach at East Coast Park,
with many in groups of more than five individuals and without proper
safe distancing.
8.               Agencies will put in place enhanced crowd control
measures at these hotspots.  In particular, we will temporarily close
off access to popular public spaces such as parks and beaches as they
approach capacity limits to better manage people flows. Carparks serving
these popular hotspots may also be selectively closed.
9.               Agencies will also step up enforcement, and will take
firm action against SD breaches by both individuals and businesses,
especially at hotspots where the risks of transmission is greater. Over
the last weekend, the National Parks Board issued over 100 fines to
individuals who failed to adhere to SD measures at gardens, parks and
nature reserves. Businesses are also expected to ensure compliance with
proper safe management measures, including SD measures. Over the last
week, the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) issued suspension notices
and fines against two F&B establishments – “Try Again” and “Los Amigos”
- along Circular Road, a popular night spot, for continuing to breach
measures despite earlier warnings.
10.           We will continue to monitor the situation and implement
stricter enforcement measures should the crowds persist at these popular
hotspots and safe distancing is not properly observed. Everyone must
behave responsibly, and have a good understanding of the risks of
infection in crowded and close spaces, so that we can avoid a resurgence
of cases as has been observed in many other countries with the
resumption of more activities.
LAST STRETCH OF MIGRANT WORKER DORMITORIES CLEARANCE
11.           The Inter-agency Taskforce (ITF) is close to completing
the dormitory clearance. In particular, we expect all the dormitories to
be cleared by the beginning of August 2020, with the exception of 17
standalone blocks in eight Purpose Built Dormitories (PBDs), which serve
as quarantine facilities. This means that all the migrant workers in the
dormitories would be cleared by then, except for 28,000 workers still
serving out their isolation period in the various quarantine facilities.
12.           This last batch of workers come from dormitories with a
relatively high prevalence of COVID-19, and will be subject to a final
test before they complete their isolation periods. We therefore expect
the daily case counts to be high for the coming two weeks, before
tapering down thereafter.
13.           With all the dormitories and the vast majority of migrant
workers cleared by the beginning of August 2020, we will also follow-up
with the companies, especially the contractors, to get ready to resume
work soon.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IS KEY
14.           It is critical that we continue to stay disciplined and
vigilant, and not let complacency undermine all our past efforts. We
need everyone to observe safe distancing as we carry on with our daily
activities, and seek medical attention early if unwell. All of us must
play our part to keep our loved ones and our community safe.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 JULY 2020
