314 More Cases Discharged 908 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



314 MORE CASES DISCHARGED 908 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 05 Aug 2020

       As of 5 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 908 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 4 (3 DEPENDANT’S PASS HOLDERS, 1 SHORT-TERM VISIT
PASS HOLDER)
All 4 imported cases arrived in Singapore from India on 22 July. Amongst
them, 3 (Cases 53877, 54265 and 54266) are Dependant’s Pass holders. The
remaining case (Case 53756) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder whose
application to enter Singapore was approved as she is an elderly whose
family are Singapore residents. All of them had been placed on 14-day
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore, and were serving their
SHN at dedicated facilities. They had been tested while serving their
SHN.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1   (1 WORK PERMIT HOLDER)
There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
54284 was identified from our proactive screening of workers in
essential services who are living outside the dormitories, even though
he is asymptomatic. To determine if this is a current or past infection,
we also conducted a serological test for him, and the result has come
back positive, which indicates likely past infection .
Epidemiological investigations of the case are in progress. In the
meantime, all the identified close contacts have been isolated and
placed on quarantine, and will be tested at the start and end of their
quarantine period so that we can detect asymptomatic cases.
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has decreased, from an
average of 4 cases per day in the week before, to an average of 2 per
day in the past week. The number of unlinked cases in the community has
also decreased, from an average of 2 cases per day in the week before,
to an average of 1 per day in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 903
Of the 903 cases, the vast majority are dormitory residents who were
tested during their isolation/ quarantine period, even though they are
asymptomatic. They are amongst the final batch of workers being cleared
and they come from dormitories with a relatively high prevalence of
COVID-19. Hence we expect the daily case counts to be high for the
coming days, before tapering down thereafter as the Inter-agency
Taskforce completes the dormitory clearance.
We remain on track to clear all the dormitories by 7 August, except for
a few standalone blocks in the dormitories that serve as quarantine
facilities. There are presently about 9,700 workers in these quarantine
facilities. They will have to serve out their 14-day isolation periods,
and be subject to an exit test before they are able to resume work.
2.     Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily situation
Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please refer to Annex
A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.     Of the new cases, 99% are linked to known clusters, while the
rest are pending contact tracing.
4.      MOH has been monitoring existing clusters for any further
transmission. As there have been no more cases linked to Micron
Semiconductor Asia Pte Ltd (1 North Coast Drive) for the past two
incubation periods (i.e. 28 days), the cluster has now been closed.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
5.     In the past week (29 July to 4 August), MOH has uncovered links
for 1 previously unlinked case in the community.
6.     Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing have
uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please refer
to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
7.     314 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 47,768 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
8.     There are currently 126 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical
condition in the intensive care unit. 6,333 are isolated and cared for
at community facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are
clinically well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed
away from complications due to COVID-19 infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
5 AUGUST 2020


