183 More Cases Discharged, 100 New Cases of Covid-19 Infection Confirmed



183 MORE CASES DISCHARGED, 100 NEW CASES OF COVID-19 INFECTION CONFIRMED


Published Date: 18 Aug 2020

           As of 18 August 2020, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified an additional 100 cases of COVID-19 infection in
Singapore. The breakdown of the cases is as follows:
A) IMPORTED CASES: 2 (1 Permanent Resident, 1 Dependant’s Pass holder)
Amongst the 2 imported cases, 1 (Case 55977) is a Singapore Permanent
Resident who returned to Singapore from India on 6 August. The remaining
case (Case 56005) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from India on
10 August. Both of them had been placed on 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN)
upon arrival in Singapore, and were serving their SHN at dedicated
facilities. They had been tested while serving their SHN.
B) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 1 (1 Singaporean)
There is 1 case in the community today who is currently unlinked. Case
56022 works at a bus depot in a role that is non-public facing and does
not entail interaction with commuters and bus captains. He was detected
as part of our screening of all staff in the public bus industry who
work at depots and interchanges. This is a precautionary measure after
MOH detected some cases at Bukit Panjang Integrated Transport Hub. In
all, more than 14,800 staff and close contacts of the cases had been
tested between 23 July and 15 August. Of these, 10 had tested positive
using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test so far[1]. This is 1
(Case 56022) more than the 9 cases previously announced by MOH and the
Land Transport Authority on 8 August. Testing has since completed, and 5
results are pending.
To determine if these 10 cases are current or past infections, we also
conducted serological tests for them and 7 results have come back
positive (including Case 56022), which indicate likely past
infection[2].
Overall, the number of new cases in the community has remained stable at
an average of 2 cases per day in the past 2 weeks. The number of
unlinked cases in the community has also remained stable at an average
of 1 case per day in the past 2 weeks. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
C) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 97

The Inter-agency Taskforce has completed the testing of all workers in
the dormitories. There are currently about 17,900 workers who are still
serving out their quarantine period. These workers will be tested when
their quarantine ends, and we expect the case counts to remain high in
the coming days, before tapering down thereafter.

2.             Details of these trends can be found in MOH’s daily
situation Report (www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report). Please
refer to Annex A for the summary of the confirmed cases.
3.            Of the new cases, 95% are linked to known clusters, while
the rest are pending contact tracing.
LINKS BETWEEN PREVIOUS CASES FOUND
4.         Further epidemiological investigations and contact tracing
have uncovered links between previously announced and new cases. Please
refer to Annex B and Annex C for details.
UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
5.       183 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 52,533 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
6.         There are currently 88 confirmed cases who are still in
hospital. Of these, most are stable or improving, and none is in the
intensive care unit. 3,290 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 27 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Including 3 initial cases detected at Bukit Panjang Integrated
Transport Hub.

[2] Cases whose serological tests are positive are likely to have a past
infection, and could be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA
picked by the PCR test, which were no longer transmissible and infective
to others.
