Interim Suspension of MediSave Approval of Dr Sng Wee Hock



INTERIM SUSPENSION OF MEDISAVE APPROVAL OF DR SNG WEE HOCK


Published Date: 06 Feb 2020

         The Ministry of Health (MOH) has served a notice of interim
suspension of the MediSave approval of Dr Sng Wee Hock on 6 February
2020. The suspension will take effect from 22 February 2020 on an
interim basis, pending the criminal proceedings in relation to his
alleged cheating of the Central Provident Fund Board into disbursing
monies from patients’ MediSave accounts by submitting MediSave claims
for surgical procedures which he had not performed. These claims were
made between 2013 and 2014 when he was practising at WH Dental
Surgeons[1].

2.      Dr Sng was charged in Court in July 2018 for offences of
cheating and forgery for the purpose of cheating under the Penal Code,
Chapter 224, and has claimed trial. MOH informed Dr Sng of our intention
to suspend his MediSave approval on 24 December 2019, and thereafter
considered his representations before deciding to proceed.

3.      Given the severity of the matter, MOH will refer the matter to
the Singapore Dental Council.

4.      When suspended, Dr Sng can continue to provide dental treatment
as long as his registration with and his practising certificate issued
by the Singapore Dental Council remain valid. However, he will not be
able to make MediSave claims on behalf of his patients for dental
treatment and surgical procedures.

5.      MOH takes a serious view of breaches of our MediSave guidelines
and will not hesitate to take action where non-compliance is uncovered.
We also remind healthcare professionals to uphold a high standard of
professionalism and to adhere to the Ethical Code and Ethical
Guidelines.

6.      MOH encourages patients to actively engage their doctors and
dentists if they have any queries on their bills. If members of the
public come across any suspicious or unusual MediSave claims made for
them, they can contact MOH (1800-255-4122).

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 FEBRUARY 2020
[1] WH Dental Surgeons has three branches – in Punggol, Hougang and
Seletar. The claims in the charges pertain to WH Dental Surgeon clinics
at Punggol and Hougang
