Covid-19 Vaccination Centres Set Up to Support Singapore's Vaccination
Programme



COVID-19 VACCINATION CENTRES SET UP TO SUPPORT SINGAPORE'S VACCINATION PROGRAMME


Published Date: 13 Jan 2021

  To support Singapore’s COVID-19 vaccination efforts, the
government is setting up four COVID-19 vaccination centres this month,
starting with two – located at Changi Airport Terminal 4 and Raffles
City Convention Centre – which have started operations from 13 January
2021. Two more vaccination centres, located at the former Hong Kah
Secondary School and Woodlands Galaxy Community Centre, will be ready
for operations next week.

2.  We expect to set up more vaccination centres over time to
support the vaccination efforts. In particular, we are on track to have
another four vaccination centres by the end of February. More centres
across the island are being planned, and will be rolled out in tandem
with the arrival of the vaccine shipments. These centres, together with
the polyclinics and selected Public Health Preparedness Clinics, will
ensure that every Singaporean and long-term resident in Singapore who is
medically eligible can receive their vaccinations conveniently.



VACCINATING OUR HEALTHCARE AND FRONTLINE WORKERS

3.  In line with the recommendations by the Expert Committee
on COVID-19 Vaccination to prioritise vaccinations of groups that are
most at risk, we have started our national vaccination programme with
healthcare and frontline workers.

4.  Vaccinations have been offered to healthcare workers and
staff across all public and private healthcare institutions.
Vaccinations are also being rolled out for workers and staff in the
community care sector.

5.  We have started vaccinating our frontline workers
including those at our border entry points, i.e. our airports and sea
ports, as well as those involved in the COVID-19 response, such as
swabbers and those working in the quarantine and community care
facilities. These individuals face considerable risks in being exposed
during the course of their duty. We should therefore protect them as
they are critical in our national efforts to prevent and contain the
spread of COVID-19 in Singapore.

6.  As of 12 January 2021, more than 6,200 individuals have
received their first dose of the vaccine. These numbers are expected to
rise substantially in the coming weeks as we continue to ramp up our
vaccination operations. On 12 January alone, we vaccinated close to
2,800 individuals, including around 2,500 healthcare workers.



VACCINATING OUR SENIORS

7.  We will commence vaccination of our seniors later this
month.  Letters will be progressively sent to seniors to invite them to
book an appointment for their vaccination.

8.  Residents and clients in the community care sector will
also progressively be vaccinated. Nursing homes have begun engaging
their residents and their next-of-kin on the vaccinations. We will work
with the community care providers to encourage all medically-eligible
residents and clients to be vaccinated.

9.  More details on the vaccination for seniors will be
provided later.



ENCOURAGING HIGHER VACCINATION TAKE-UP

10.  We are making provision for all Singaporeans and long-term
residents in Singapore to be able to get vaccinated by the third quarter
of this year, if there are no unforeseen disruptions to vaccine
shipments. Vaccination will be progressively rolled out, and we seek
everyone’s patience and support as we work to first protect those who
are most at risk or most vulnerable.

11.  A high level of vaccination coverage will maximise
protection for the population, and minimise the proportion of persons
still susceptible to COVID-19. This will in turn reduce the risk of
large outbreaks, continue to keep community cases low, and allow us to
further re-open the economy and resume normal social activities. Thus,
we encourage Singaporeans and long-term residents to come forward for
vaccination when their turn comes, so that as a society, we can keep
each other safe from the disease.

12.  Even as we progressively vaccinate our population, we must
keep in mind that vaccination is not a silver bullet. We must continue
to adhere to the safe management measures to help us mitigate the spread
and keep community transmission low.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 JANUARY 2021
