Tightening Safe Management Measures and Update On Vaccination Plans



TIGHTENING SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES AND UPDATE ON VACCINATION PLANS


Published Date: 22 Jan 2021

1.      It has been nearly a month since we transitioned to Phase Three
of our re-opening.  We anticipated then that there could a greater level
of transmission due to the increased interactions in the community, and
that we would need to continually adjust and calibrate our measures
depending on the infection situation. Indeed over the past week, we have
seen an increase in the number of local cases, some of which are
currently unlinked and have resulted in the formation of community
clusters. This is a real cause for concern as it could indicate that
there is wider, as yet undetected, community transmission. We must
remain vigilant to avoid an uncontrolled resurgence of community
cases.
TIGHTENING SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
2.      In light of the latest situation, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce
(MTF) has decided that we will need to calibrate the pace and scale at
which certain activities in the community can resume.
a. Hence we had earlier announced the suspension of the pilot to allow
shortlisted nightclubs and karaoke outlets to resume operations.
b. We will also postpone the start of the National School Games which
was originally scheduled in February. The Ministry of Education (MOE)
will review again the type of sports to resume and in what format, to
ensure that games can be conducted meaningfully but safely for our
students. More details will be provided by MOE later.
3.      To further mitigate the risk of large community clusters arising
from infections that spread within a household and through them to all
their contacts, WE WILL IMPOSE A CAP OF 8 DISTINCT VISITORS PER
HOUSEHOLD PER DAY. This will take effect from 26 JANUARY 2021.
INDIVIDUALS SHOULD ALSO LIMIT THEMSELVES TO VISITING AT MOST TWO OTHER
HOUSEHOLDS A DAY, AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
4.      The maximum group size for social gatherings outside the house
will remain at 8 people for now. That said, everyone should keep their
social circle small instead of mixing with multiple social groups. We
will continue to monitor the situation closely and impose further
measures as necessary.
_Staying Vigilant During the Festive Season _
5.      There will be increased transmission risks in the community
during the upcoming Chinese New Year period.  So it is important that
everyone cooperates with the new measures.
6.      In particular those who are dining out should make sure they
wear a mask if they are not eating or drinking. We already do not allow
singing (including by diners) and other live performances at F&B
establishments and work-related events where food is served. Diners
should also avoid raising their voices, at all times. This also means
that face masks must be worn during the tossing of yusheng, and that the
lohei should be done without any verbalisation of the usual auspicious
phrases. F&B establishments and enterprises serving lohei must ensure
that both the staff and patrons comply with these requirements.
7.      We encourage everyone to connect digitally with their family and
friends instead of going on physical visits.  For those who would like
to do house visits, they should limit their visits to family members and
to not more than 2 other households a day. Singaporeans are also
reminded that the prevailing rules at F&B establishments will apply to
reunion dinners held within them. In other words, there must not be any
multiple table bookings. The only exception is for those from the same
household. But even in such instances, there should not be any
inter-mingling across tables.
8.      We will step up enforcement checks at F&B establishments, malls
and other crowded public spaces during this period. Strict enforcement
actions will be taken against individuals and operators who do not
comply with safe management measure. The penalties include fines and
prosecution in court, depending on the severity of the offence.  For
operators who do not comply with the measures, their operations will be
suspended.
9.      With everyone’s cooperation, we can avoid sparking large
clusters which may then necessitate further tightening of measures or
even a reversion to Phase Two or Phase One measures.
SURVEILLANCE TESTING
10.      As community interactions are likely to increase in the leadup
to Chinese New Year, we will carry out surveillance testing for
stallholders, shop owners, persons in the food and beverage industry, as
well as food delivery persons operating in and around Chinatown. While
there has been no evidence that these community groups are at higher
risk of infection, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will be offering tests
to them as they are expected to interact more frequently with other
members of the public during this time. The testing will take place from
8 FEBRUARY TO 9 FEBRUARY 2021. MOH, together with other government
agencies, will be progressively reaching out to these identified
community groups with further details.
11.      We strongly encourage all individuals in the identified
community groups to come forward for testing. The costs of these tests
will be fully borne by the Government.
EXTENSION OF COVID-19 TESTING SUBSIDIES
12.      Besides active case finding and ongoing surveillance testing,
the Government has been conducting Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) of
workers in the various sectors that have higher risk of exposure to
COVID-19 or with larger negative impact if they were to have a COVID-19
infection in their midst. These include workers living in dormitories,
and those working in the construction, marine and process, aviation and
maritime sectors, among others.
13.      The Government had earlier announced that it will bear the
costs of RRT in these sectors until 31 March 2021. As COVID-19 continues
to pose significant public health risks in these sectors, the Government
will continue to bear the costs for COVID-19 RRT until 30 SEPTEMBER 2021
to support their safe operations.
14.     The Government will continue to review its subsidies for
COVID-19 RRT to ensure that they support our public health efforts while
sharing the costs equitably between taxpayers, employers and
individuals.
UPDATE ON VACCINATION PLANS
15.      Vaccination is critical to protect us and our loved ones
against COVID-19. Vaccination also protects those in our community who
cannot be vaccinated due to medical reasons. This collective protection
will become more effective as more people are vaccinated and is a key
enabler allowing us to return to normalcy.

16.      We have made good progress in our vaccination programme. As of
today, more than 60,000 individuals have received their first dose of
the vaccine, including staff working in healthcare, nursing home,
frontline and essential services, as well as seniors in our nursing
homes. 39 staff at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID)
have also received their second dose of the vaccine, and completed the
full vaccination regimen, and in 2 weeks’ time, they will have built up
maximum protection against COVID-19. These numbers are expected to rise
substantially in the coming weeks as we continue to ramp up our
vaccination operations safely.
17.      While there will be some upcoming delays to the shipments of
Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines due to Pfizer’s manufacturing plant upgrading,
we will continue to monitor our supplies closely to ensure that we will
have enough vaccines for all Singaporeans and long-term residents in
Singapore by the third quarter of 2021.
VACCINATING OUR SENIORS
18.      This week, residents in our nursing homes have started to
receive their vaccinations. Our seniors in the community will also be
able to receive their vaccines very soon.
19.      FROM 27 JANUARY 2021, WE WILL COMMENCE VACCINATION FOR SENIORS,
STARTING WITH PILOTS IN ANG MO KIO AND TANJONG PAGAR, WHERE LARGER
NUMBERS OF OUR SENIORS RESIDE.  The aim of these pilots is to enable us
to iron out all the operational processes before scaling up nationwide.
VACCINATIONS WILL BE PROGRESSIVELY EXTENDED TO SENIORS ACROSS THE ISLAND
FROM MID-FEBRUARY 2021.  More vaccination centres will be set up over
the next few weeks to ensure that all seniors can conveniently receive
their vaccinations at a centre near to where they live. The vaccination
centres will be located in high population catchment areas and/or along
public transport routes for greater accessibility. We seek everyone’s
patience and support as we progressively roll-out the vaccinations to
all.
20.      All seniors will receive personalised letters inviting them to
make an appointment for their vaccinations. They will be able to make
appointments online, or they can also visit selected Community Centres
near them to book an appointment in-person.
21.      In addition, community volunteers from the People’s
Association, as well as our Silver Generation Ambassadors will be
conducting house visits and tapping on existing grassroots events, to
answer queries and help our seniors to book an appointment if necessary.
Seniors will also be provided with information sheets with more details
on the COVID-19 vaccine and the vaccination process. Should our seniors
require further assistance, they may also call the MOH hotline at
1800-333-9999.
KEEPING SAFE DURING PHASE THREE
22.      Tightened safe management measures, supported by widespread
surveillance testing and progressive vaccination of our population
starting from those in settings with higher public health risk will help
us to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and keep community transmission
rates low. This is key if we are to remain in Phase Three and consider
any further re-opening.
23.      We seek the cooperation of all Singaporeans to remain united
and disciplined in the fight against COVID-19. Observe all safe
management measures, see a doctor and get tested when sick, and be
vaccinated when it is offered to you. Together, we can look forward to a
safer and healthier 2021.


