Antigen Rapid Test Kits Vending Machines Deployed Islandwide and Updates
to Home Recovery and Travel Classifications



ANTIGEN RAPID TEST KITS VENDING MACHINES DEPLOYED ISLANDWIDE AND UPDATES TO HOME RECOVERY AND TRAVEL CLASSIFICATIONS


Published Date: 17 Sep 2021

    We have seen a continued rise in local COVID-19 cases. The great
majority of these cases have exhibited no or mild symptoms. We will
continue to calibrate our safe management measures, test extensively and
contact trace as widely as possible to identify and reduce serious
infections early. We will also make testing more pervasive by
proliferating the use of Antigen Rapid Test (ART) kits within our
community and at our workplaces, and adjust our healthcare protocols to
better navigate the current wave of transmissions.

LOCAL SITUATION UPDATE
2.  Even as our infection cases rise - the average number of cases
increased from 146 cases per day a fortnight ago, to 682 cases per day
in the past week – the number of serious cases, for now, remains low. As
of 16 September, there are 77 cases requiring oxygen supplementation,
and 12 in critical condition in the intensive care unit (ICU). They
represent 1.6% and 0.1% of total infections over the last 28 days.
3.    This has largely been brought about by the vaccination programme,
which has covered 82% of our residents to date. The occurrences of
severe illnesses are not even, concentrating mostly on older and
unvaccinated infected individuals. (See Annex A.) Nevertheless, we are
still early in this new wave of transmission and must continue to stay
vigilant.
4.    To this end, we will press on with our vaccination booster
efforts,and will continue to proliferate pervasive testing in the
community and at our workplaces. We will also review our healthcare
protocols to identify opportunities to facilitate more home recovery and
isolation, as part of our transition to a COVID-19 resilient nation.

VENDING MACHINES DEPLOYED ISLANDWIDE TO SUPPORT DISTRIBUTION OF ART KITS
5.    The Ministry of Health (MOH) is deploying 100 vending machines
across 56 locations islandwide. The vending machines will be available
for 24/7 access from 18 SEPTEMBER 2021. More information on the Health
Risk Warnings (HRW) and Health Risk Alerts (HRA), the full list of
collection points and the steps for collection of the ART self-test kits
is available at gowhere.gov.sg/art.
6.    Individuals who receive an HRW SMS notification must get an entry
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test at a Swab and Send Home (SASH)
clinic or Private Practitioner (PP)[1], and self-isolate until they
receive a negative result from their first PCR test. They will also be
required to perform self-administered ART tests on the third, fifth and
seventh day from the day of last exposure to the COVID-19 case whom they
were close contacts with, followed by another exit PCR test on or after
the eighth day at a SASH clinic or PP. If all these are complied with,
their HRW period will end on the tenth day of exposure. All swab costs
will be borne by the Government.
7.    From 18 SEPTEMBER 2021 onwards, individuals who are informed of
their HRW or HRA status by MOH through SMS will also receive
instructions on the frequent testing regime that they must follow. To
facilitate this, such individuals may scan their Singapore-issued ID
(NRIC/FIN) to collect a pack (comprising three ART self-test kits) at a
nearby vending machine, and use the ART kits for self-testing to fulfil
the requirement for HRW. Please refer to Annex B for the list of
locations for these vending machines.
8.   From 18 SEPTEMBER 2021, individuals who receive an HRA SMS
notification should perform a self-administered ART test on the first,
third and fifth day from the day of last exposure to the COVID-19 case
whom they were potentially close contacts with, and monitor their health
until the tenth day of exposure. All who have been issued a HRW or a HRA
can use their government-distributed kits to perform the required
self-administered ART tests. We urge all on HRA to exercise social
responsibility and limit their interactions with other persons during
that period.
EXPANDING THE SUITABILITY OF HOME RECOVERY INDIVIDUALS
9.   We have made Home Recovery the default care management model for
suitable COVID-19 patients less than 50 years old from 15 September
2021. 597 fully vaccinated COVID-19 patients, including 13 children
between 5 to 11 years old have successfully started their home recovery
journey. This is close to a third of the community cases for the past
two days, which is highly encouraging, as we see more individuals taking
personal empowerment to take care of their own health and recovery.
Since the pilot started from 30 August 2021, 32 of them have been
discharged.
10.  Data continues to show that fully vaccinated individuals are indeed
less at risk of severe illness, especially those under the age of 70
years. Hence, we will be further expanding the suitability criteria for
Home Recovery to now include fully vaccinated individuals up to the age
of 69 years. This allows more COVID-19 patients to recover within the
comfort of their homes, and for us to further direct our hospitals
resources to those who really need more intensive care.
11.  From 18 SEPTEMBER 2021, Home Recovery will be the default care
management model for individuals who are:
a.  Fully vaccinated;
b.  Aged 12 to 69 years old;
c.  No severe co-morbidities or illnesses;
d.  Able to self-isolate in a room, preferably with an attached
bathroom; and
e.  Have no household members who are more than 80 years old or are in
one of the vulnerable groups (e.g. pregnant individuals or with weakened
immune response).

12.   Individuals tested positive for COVID-19 and meet the above
criteria can begin Home Recovery immediately, without having to be
conveyed to a hospital or Community Care Facility. We continue to urge
all fully vaccinated COVID-19 individuals below the age of 70 to adopt
Home Recovery as the default care management, just like how you would
recover from, say, Influenza. Please continue to self-isolate from your
household members until you receive confirmation of your PCR test
results. If you are confirmed COVID-19 positive, please refer to
the 10-step guide on our Home Recovery
website at go.gov.sg/home-recovery.
UPDATES TO TRAVEL CLASSIFICATIONS IN OUR CALIBRATED MEASURES AT OUR
BORDERS
13.  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has also been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation and continues to update the country risk
classification periodically. The updated classification, together with
the associated testing requirements, can be found in Annex C.

a.  Category II: This would include countries/regions such as Australia,
Brunei, Canada, Germany, New Zealand and the Republic of Korea today. We
have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in POLAND AND SAUDI ARABIA and will
also add them to this category from 22 SEPTEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS.
b.  Category III: We have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in BULGARIA,
CZECH REPUBLIC, FRANCE, LATVIA, PORTUGAL AND SPAIN and will add them to
this category from 22 SEPTEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS. Vaccinated travellers
from these countries may apply to serve their 14-day Stay-Home Notice
(SHN) at a suitable accommodation of their choice (e.g. residential
address, hotels or serviced apartments), if they fulfil the criteria
listed in Annex D. Unvaccinated travellers will still be required to
undergo a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities.
_Resumption of Transits and Removal of On-arrival ART for Travellers
from Indonesia
_14.  We had previously announced that all travellers with a 21-day
travel history to Indonesia would not be allowed to transit through
Singapore, and those entering Singapore would also be required to
undergo an on-arrival ART (on top of the on-arrival PCR test). As the
situation in Indonesia has shown improvement, all passengers with travel
history to Indonesia within the last 21 days prior to departure for
Singapore will be allowed to transit through Singapore from 22 SEPTEMBER
2021, 2359 HOURS. In addition, travellers from Indonesia entering
Singapore will be required to undergo an on-arrival PCR test[2] instead
of an ART[3] plus a PCR test. Travellers with travel history to
Indonesia within the last 21 days prior to departure for Singapore will
be subject to Category IV border measures.
15.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a COVID-19
resilient nation. Any changes to border measures will be updated on
the SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to
check the latest border measures for the associated country or region
before entering Singapore; and be prepared to be subjected to the
prevailing border measures upon entry.

WORKING TOGETHER TOWARDS COVID-19 RESILIENCY
16.  Our current transmission levels are in line with those experienced
by similar countries on a path towards COVID-19 resilience. While our
vaccinations have allowed us to keep severe illness low among those who
are infected, we need all Singaporeans to remain vigilant and continue
working together by exercising civic consciousness and personal
responsibility so that we can dampen the rate of transmission together
and ride this wave of infections safely. To this end, we seek everyone’s
continued cooperation to come forward for vaccination if you have not
yet done so, seek medical care if feeling unwell, practise good hand
hygiene, self-test regularly, and self-regulate social interactions at a
restrained level. Together, we will emerge stronger.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
17 SEPTEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] PCR tests can be taken at the following PPs: Fullerton Health
Testing Centre, Raffles Hospital or Kingsway Medical Clinic. Individuals
on HRW may make an appointment through the booking
link: go.gov.sg/hrw-testing

[2] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the checkpoints, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore
at https://safetravel.changiairport.com/ (for Changi Airport)
and https://t.2c2p.com/express/parkwayshenton (for Tanah Merah Ferry
Terminal).

[3]  Travellers from Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, the
Philippines and Sri Lanka would also undergo an on-arrival PCR instead
of an ART plus a PCR test.
