Calibrated Reopening to Keep Our Community Safe



CALIBRATED REOPENING TO KEEP OUR COMMUNITY SAFE


Published Date: 18 Jun 2021

            The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) had earlier announced a
calibrated reopening to Phase 3 (Heightened Alert) starting with Stage 1
on Monday, 14 JUNE 2021, and a further reopening with Stage 2 on Monday,
21 JUNE 2021. The MTF would like to thank all Singaporeans and residents
for their efforts in ensuring a safe and gradual transition. While the
collective efforts of Singaporeans over the past few weeks have helped
slow the chains of transmission, unlinked cases continue to emerge.
These suggest that undetected community transmission persists. Hence, we
must continue to exercise good hygiene habits, remain vigilant and
carefully recalibrate our reopening to keep our community safe.

UPDATE ON LOCAL SITUATION

2.  Since the start of Stage 1 of our calibrated reopening, we
have seen a small and persistent number of unlinked cases which have the
potential to spark larger clusters, such as the one around 115 Bukit
Merah View Market and Food Centre. To reduce the risk of further spread
and ringfence possible emerging transmissions arising from this cluster,
we have carried out special testing operations for all staff and tenants
working at 115 and 116 Bukit Merah View, and extended free COVID-19
testing to members of the public who had visited these two blocks on
days when the infectious individuals had also been present.

3.  To protect groups who frequently interact with members of our
community, we have offered prioritised vaccinations since March 2021 to
those who work in hawker centres and markets. We encourage eligible
individuals working in such settings, who are medically eligible, to
come forward for vaccination.

UPDATED APPROACH TO GRADUAL REOPENING TO PHASE 3 (HEIGHTENED ALERT)

4.  Due to the persistence of such undetected community
transmission cases, we are calibrating our reopening plans. From 21 JUNE
2021, higher-risk activities such as dining-in at F&B establishments and
indoor mask-off sports/exercise will only be allowed to resume in GROUP
SIZES OF UP TO 2 PERSONS, instead of up to 5 persons as previously
announced. Concurrently, we will onboard staff in these settings as
quickly as possible onto regular Fast and Easy Tests (FET), starting
with using antigen rapid tests (ART). In the coming weeks, we will build
up the capacity for FET, and expect a regular FET regime to be in place
for those working in these settings by around mid-July. Hence, barring
another superspreader event or big cluster, we will allow such
activities to increase to group sizes of up to 5 persons from MID-JULY
2021 (DATE TO BE ANNOUNCED LATER).

5.  The updated measures for F&B establishments, indoor-mask off
activities, and wedding receptions are detailed in the following
paragraphs (please refer to ANNEX A for full details on the updated
measures, including for other activities where applicable):

6. Resumption of Dining-In at F&B establishments. F&B
establishments will be able to resume dining-in from 21 June 2021 in
GROUP SIZES OF UP TO 2 PERSONS. This means that a group of more than 2
persons who are not from the same household is not allowed to dine-in
together at F&B establishments, even if they are split across multiple
tables. To further mitigate the risk of transmission from patrons
talking loudly, recorded music will not be allowed in F&B
establishments. This is in addition to the current restrictions on
videos/TV screening and live entertainment at F&B establishments. F&B
establishments are also reminded to strictly observe safe distancing of
at least 1 metre between groups of diners, of no more than two persons
per group, to lower the risk of transmission. Enforcement will be
stepped up and we will take firmer enforcement action for any breaches
of safe management measures. Patrons must keep their masks on at all
times, except when eating or drinking.

7. Wedding receptions. As wedding receptions are higher-risk
activities where attendees tend to socialise more and over a longer
period of time, wedding receptions will remain prohibited until mid-July
2021.

8. Indoor mask-off sports/ exercise activities. Gyms and fitness
studios may resume indoor mask-off sports/ exercise activities IN GROUP
SIZES OF UP TO 2 PERSONS, AND IN CLASSES OF UP TO 30 PERSONS INCLUDING
THE INSTRUCTOR, with safe distancing of at least 2m between individuals
and 3m between groups. For mask-on activities and outdoor mask-off
activities, these can continue in groups of no more than 5 persons, in
classes of up to 30 persons including the instructor. SportSG will
release more details on this.

WORK-FROM-HOME REMAINS THE DEFAULT

9.  As we transition through Phase 3 (Heightened Alert) in the
coming weeks, we must control transmission risks by reducing overall
interaction within workplaces, and in public places including public
transport. Thus, work-from-home will continue to remain the default
arrangement. Employers are reminded to ensure the practice continues,
and for employees that need to come to the workplace, to stagger their
start times and implement flexible working hours. There should continue
to be no cross-deployment of workers to multiple worksites. For
workplaces, social gatherings continue to be disallowed, and
work-related events (e.g. product launches, townhalls) should continue
to disallow F&B.

TARGETED SUPPORT MEASURES

10.  In view of the continued tightened safe management measures
of various activities until MID-JULY 2021, the Government will extend
the current enhancements to the Jobs Support Scheme for affected sectors
by 3 WEEKS before tapering it down to 10% for another 2 WEEKS (please
refer to ANNEX B for details).

11.  To provide targeted support to hawkers who are self-employed,
the Government will extend the subsidies for fees for table-cleaning and
centralised dishwashing services, and provide rental waivers, till
mid-July 2021 for stallholders in centres managed by NEA or
NEA-appointed operators.

12.  To help other workers who remain affected by the extended
tightened safe management measures, the Government will also extend the
COVID-19 Recovery Grant (Temporary) [CRG-T] until 31 JULY 2021. Existing
CRG-T recipients who continue to require assistance can also apply for a
second tranche of CRG-T support in July. The Ministry of Social and
Family Development will share more details.

UPDATE ON PHASED ROLL OUT OF REGULAR FAST AND EASY TESTS (FET) FOR STAFF
INVOLVED IN HIGHER-RISK ACTIVITIES

13.  We will require all staff who work at settings with unmasked
clients/patrons, or where there is prolonged contact between
individuals, to be placed on a regular FET regime, using tests such as
ART. These include staff of:
a.  Dine-in F&B establishments;
b.  Personal care services (e.g. facial and nail services, spas/
saunas, massage establishments, hairdressing, and make-up services); and
c.  Gyms and fitness studios where clients are unmasked.

14.  The regular 14-day FET requirement for staff at these
settings will be made mandatory from around mid-July 2021. We expect
that most of the FET can be done through a system of self-swabs
supervised by the employer. To support establishments in their efforts
to get started on FET, we have set up training programmes that companies
can leverage to train supervisors in their establishments to supervise
ART self-swabs for their staff. These supervisor training programmes
will be provided at no cost to these establishments for the next 3
months. ART kits will also be made available to establishments for these
employer supervised self-swabs.  Some F&B establishments have already
sent their employees for training and are ready to implement regular
testing progressively from 21 JUNE 2021.

15.  There may be small businesses who are unable to organise the
supervised self-swabs on their own. Hence we will also set up Quick Test
Centres (QTCs) to support those who need to be tested.  We will start
with one each at Tekka and Yishun which will be operational from 21 JUNE
2021. More QTCs will be progressively set up. To further minimise the
risks of transmission in these settings, the Government will also
facilitate earlier vaccination of individuals who work in these
settings.

16.  Agencies will provide more information on the regular FET
requirements to the identified sectors.

INTRODUCTION OF COVID-19 TESTING VIA ART FOR VISITORS OF RESIDENTIAL
CARE HOMES SERVING ELDERLY, UPON THE RESUMPTION OF VISITS ON 21 JUNE
2021

17.  Visits to residential care homes serving elderly (“Homes”)
had been suspended from 5 JUNE 2021 THROUGH 20 JUNE 2021 in light of the
recent cases of community transmission. We have been working with the
Homes to strengthen their existing suite of precautionary measures,
including reviewing the visitor management and testing policies to
safeguard the health of the seniors.

18.  To enhance existing visitor management measures when physical
visits resume from 21 JUNE 2021, visitors to Homes will need to take a
FET at the Home and test negative prior to entry. Homes will be using
ARTs for this purpose. We seek the patience and understanding of
visitors that some Homes may require more time to put in place the
necessary procedures for ART and will only be able to resume visits at a
later date. Other Homes may start off with a smaller number of visitors
to allow them to stabilise their operational processes before
accommodating a larger number of visits. Visitors should continue to
schedule visits with the Home ahead of time, and take into consideration
the added time required to complete the ART.

DEPLOYMENT OF SAFEENTRY GATEWAY CHECK-OUT BOXES

19.  In the coming weeks, to strengthen the TraceTogether (TT) and
SafeEntry (SE) Programmes, which are critical digital tools to
facilitate contact tracing and bring down community spread, SafeEntry
Gateway (SEGW) Check-Out Boxes will also be rolled out progressively at
venues with high footfall to facilitate SE check-outs. This follows
public feedback from SEGW users who want to perform SE check-out, but
are unable to do so currently. This will help to facilitate more precise
contact tracing efforts.

20.  SEGW Check-Out Boxes will be deployed at venues with higher
throughput of visitors (e.g. malls, hospitals and polyclinics), and
places where individuals are likely to be in close proximity for
prolonged periods with masks off (e.g. dine-in F&B outlets and gyms).
Eligible businesses will be notified and will receive their SEGW
Check-Out Boxes in the coming weeks.

21.  Members of the public are encouraged to perform SE check-out
when leaving the premises as far as possible. This information will
support the contact tracing process by providing more details for the
identification of close contacts.

STRENGTHENING RINGFENCING AROUND CASES

22.  Given the increased transmissibility of viral strains, we
will use TT and SE data to strengthen our ringfencing around cases to
prevent large clusters from arising. This will give us greater
confidence to resume more activities while preventing transmissions. As
part of this measure, we will be sending ‘Health Alerts’ via SMS to
individuals, who have visited hotspots on the same days as the infected
persons, and may have been exposed to the virus. These individuals will
be required to undergo mandatory testing at designated testing centres
and stay isolated until they receive their results. While the risk of
infection is lower if they were to test negative, they should continue
to limit their interactions with others as an added precaution and
restrict their activities to only those which are essential. In
particular those who need to go to work (i.e. cannot work from home)
will be allowed to do so. However, they must comply strictly with all
the safe management measures at the workplace. Furthermore, at the
testing centres, we will give them DIY test kits, which they will need
to self-administer at home over the subsequent days to confirm that they
are not infected. We will need all Singaporeans to play their part.
Further details will be announced when ready.

KEEPING OUR COMMUNITY SAFE

23.  The persistence of unlinked cases suggests that there are
undetected cases in the community. Until we achieve a higher rate of
vaccination within our population, public health measures such as
testing, ringfencing, and calibrated reopenings continue to be our best
defences against the virus. Individually, we must continue to observe
all the safe management measures, practise good hygiene, and see a
doctor and be tested when sick.

24.  In the coming few months, vaccination is our key enabler,
both to reduce the risk of transmission, and to reduce the severity of
disease for those who are unfortunately still infected. Its ability to
help Singapore reopen safely can only be felt when we can collectively
achieve a high level of population coverage for vaccination. Hence, we
urge everyone who are eligible to be vaccinated when it is offered to
you. It is only by working together, that we can emerge stronger and
safer.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 JUNE 2021
