Termination of Rafflesia Dental Surgery From Chas



TERMINATION OF RAFFLESIA DENTAL SURGERY FROM CHAS


Published Date: 25 Aug 2021

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) has, on 5 August 2021, served a
notice of intended termination on Rafflesia Dental Pte Ltd, for the
intended termination of Rafflesia Dental Surgery from the Community
Health Assist Scheme (CHAS). The termination will take effect from 28
August 2021.
2.     Audits on Rafflesia Dental Surgery (100 Jalan Sultan #01-04A
Sultan Plaza) conducted in late 2020 revealed severe non-compliances,
including numerous improper claims for CHAS subsidies with no proper
supporting documentation and overclaims[1].
3.     The termination from CHAS means that Rafflesia Dental Surgery
will no longer be allowed to make claims for CHAS subsidies on behalf of
its patients. Affected patients may wish to visit other nearby CHAS
accredited dental clinics instead.
4.     MOH encourages patients to actively engage their doctors and
dentists if they have any queries on their bills. CHAS, Pioneer
Generation and Merdeka Generation cardholders who wish to check on
claims for CHAS subsidies made on their behalf, may do so by logging
into the “MY CHAS” module on the CHAS website (www.chas.sg) or by
calling the CHAS hotline (1800-275-2427).
5.     If they come across any suspicious or unusual claims for CHAS
subsidies made on their behalf, they may contact MOH at 1800-225-4122 or
send their feedback to MOH_QSM@moh.gov.sg. MOH also reminds healthcare
professionals to uphold a high standard of professionalism and to adhere
to their Ethical Code and Ethical Guidelines.
6.     MOH takes a serious view of such errant practices and will not
hesitate to take enforcement actions where required, including referral
of the errant healthcare professionals to their respective professional
boards. We have referred this case to the Police for further
investigation.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
25 AUGUST 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Claims reflecting a higher subsidy amount in the claims system than
in the receipts

