Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Vietnam



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM VIETNAM


Published Date: 13 May 2021

          The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation, and will be tightening border measures given
the increase in cases in Vietnam.

TRAVELLERS FROM VIETNAM TO SERVE 21-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES

2.          As there has been a recent increase in cases reported by
Vietnam, WITH IMMEDIATE EFFECT, all travellers entering Singapore who
have a travel history in the past 21 days to VIETNAM will be required to
serve a 21-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN
facilities.Travellers were previously required to serve a 21-day SHN
consisting of 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities and an additional 7
days at a place of residence or self-sourced accommodation.

a.  Travellers who have not completed their 14-day SHN at dedicated
SHN facilities by 15 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS[1], will be required to serve
the additional 7-days at their current dedicated SHN facility. These
travellers will be contacted regarding the additional costs to be paid.

b.  Travellers who are currently serving their SHN at a place of
residence or self-sourced accommodation will be required to complete
their 21-day SHN at their current location to minimise movement and risk
of transmission.

c.  Travellers serving 21-day SHN will undergo COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) tests on-arrival[2], on Day 14 of their SHN, and
before the end of their 21-day SHN period.

3.  Travellers from Fiji are still allowed to serve the
additional 7-days at their place of residence.

ENABLING A SAFE REOPENING

4.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to
adjust our border measures to manage the risk of importation and
transmission to the community. Any changes to border measures will be
updated on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the
website to check for the most updated border measures before entering
Singapore and be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border
measures upon entry, including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN
facilities, tests and treatment.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Travellers who complete their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities
before 15 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS can serve the additional 7-days SHN at a
place of residence.

[2] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
