Preparing for Our Transition Towards Covid Resilience



PREPARING FOR OUR TRANSITION TOWARDS COVID RESILIENCE


Published Date: 06 Aug 2021

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce had earlier announced the reversion to
Phase 2 (Heightened Alert) from 22 JULY 2021 through 18 AUGUST 2021 to
allow us to contain the outbreak of clusters in the community and
minimise the risk of our healthcare capacity being overwhelmed while we
ramped up our vaccination rates, particularly among seniors. Through the
cooperation and efforts of everyone, the situation has stabilised.
Infection numbers are stable and more importantly, the number of
individuals with severe illnesses and deaths did not rise
uncontrollably.

PREPARING TO BE A COVID-19 RESILIENT NATION

2.  During this period, our population vaccination rate has been
going up by about one percentage-point each day. As of 5 AUGUST 2021,
67% of the population have completed their full vaccination regimen
under the national vaccination programme and 78% have received at least
one dose. Vaccination reduces the risk of infection and serious disease
when infected with COVID-19. Over the last 28 days, among the 80 local
cases infected with COVID-19 who are seriously ill [1], 72 are
unvaccinated or partially vaccinated, while only 8 are fully vaccinated.
A highly vaccinated resident population is crucial to our safe reopening
and transition towards an endemic COVID-19 world.

3.       We remain concerned that unvaccinated seniors may suffer severe
illness if infected. Hence, we have ramped up efforts to encourage more
seniors to be vaccinated. Seniors can walk into any vaccination centre,
polyclinic, or Public Health Preparedness Clinic for their vaccinations.
We have also deployed mobile vaccination teams to locations where many
seniors live and home vaccination teams for homebound individuals. In
addition, we have roped in General Practitioners and Traditional Chinese
Medicine practitioners to persuade seniors to be vaccinated. Many of our
seniors have responded to these initiatives. We are also asking
polyclinics and public hospitals to bring forward the appointments of
seniors who are contraindicated, so that they can receive earlier advice
on whether they can receive COVID-19 vaccinations. Currently, 76% of
those aged 70 and above have completed two doses and 82% have received
at least one dose. But there are still about 80,000 in this group that
have yet to be vaccinated. As this group is at higher risk of being
infected and being seriously ill if infected, we will continue efforts
to help them get their vaccinations.

4.       By 9 AUGUST 2021, we expect that around 70% of our entire
population would have completed two doses. This gives us some confidence
that we can start to re-open our economy and resume more activities.
However, we will continue to take a calibrated risk-based approach in
re-opening. We will monitor health outcomes, particularly
hospitalisation and ICU cases, to avoid exponential increases that could
overwhelm our healthcare capacity.

5.       In particular, we will adopt a vaccination-differentiated
approach when adjusting our safe management and border measures. Fully
vaccinated individuals, who have good protection against the risk of
infection or severe illnesses, will be able to engage in a wider range
of activities. Unvaccinated individuals will need to exercise tighter
safe management measures to protect themselves and those around them.

6.       Even with high vaccination coverage, we may still have vaccine
breakthroughs and a large number of daily COVID-19 cases within the
community. Nevertheless, with the majority of our population protected
through vaccination, we should be able to keep hospitalisation and ICU
cases low. We will continue to monitor the situation, especially the
incidence of severe illness from COVID-19, as we continue with our
re-opening plans.

UPDATES IN HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS.

7.       As we prepare for the transition towards COVID resilience, we
have reviewed our medical management protocols for our COVID-19
patients. With evidence emerging that vaccinated individuals can recover
within 10 days from illness onset, we have moved to discharge fully
vaccinated persons earlier at Day 10 from isolation if their PCR test
shows that they are COVID-19 negative or have very low viral loads.
Others who do not meet the criteria will continue to be discharged after
14 days of isolation without any further testing, with an additional 7
days’ leave of absence. This approach gives us assurance that cases will
not pose transmission risks to their family and community upon
discharge.

UPDATES TO SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FROM 10 AUGUST 2021

8.       We have also undertaken a mid-point review of the Phase 2
(Heightened Alert) measures, and will allow some easing of the measures
in two steps. The first will take effect from 10 AUGUST 2021, and the
second from 19 AUGUST 2021, if conditions remain stable. Please refer to
Annex A for details.

(A)  Increase in Social Gathering Group Size

9.        We will increase the current social gathering group size limit
from 2 persons to 5 PERSONS and increase the cap of 2 distinct visitors
per household per day to 5 distinct visitors per household per day.
Unvaccinated individuals should remain in groups of no more than 2
persons, to reduce the likelihood of transmission and severe infection.
We should also continue to limit our social circle to a small group of
regular contacts and limit the number of social gatherings to no more
than two a day.

(B) Updates on Vaccination-Differentiated Safe Management Measures and
Eligibility

10.     With better protection against infection and severe illness,
FULLY-VACCINATED INDIVIDUALS MAY PARTICIPATE, IN GROUPS OF UP TO 5
PERSONS, IN HIGHER-RISK ACTIVITIES WHERE MASKS ARE REMOVED, e.g. Food &
Beverage (F&B) dine-in, personal care services, indoor high-intensity
mask-off sports; and in LARGER EVENTS e.g. solemnizations,
congregational and other worship services.

11.      With higher vaccination coverage under our national vaccination
programme, we can take a more inclusive approach in recognising COVID-19
vaccines in the World Health Organisation’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO
EUL). From 10 AUGUST 2021, individuals who are fully vaccinated with the
WHO EUL vaccines such as Sinovac-CoronaVac, Sinopharm, and AstraZeneca
will be eligible for the vaccination-differentiated safe management
measures.Thus, an individual will be considered “fully-vaccinated” two
weeks after he or she has received the full regimen of Pfizer-BioNTech/
Comirnaty, Moderna, or any WHO EUL vaccines.

12.      Unvaccinated individuals with a valid negative pre-event test
result or recovered individuals are of similarly lower risk, and may
also join in such groups of up to 5.

_Resumption of Dining-in at F&B Establishments for Vaccinated Groups_

13.     GROUPS OF UP TO 5 PERSONS WILL BE ALLOWED TO DINE-IN AT F&B
ESTABLISHMENTS IF ALL THE DINERS ARE FULLY VACCINATED. Unvaccinated
children aged 12 years and below may be included within the group of 5
persons AS LONG AS ALL THE CHILDREN ARE FROM THE SAME HOUSEHOLD.

14.    Individual F&B establishments may only resume dine-in services
for fully vaccinated persons as outlined above. F&B establishments that
are not able to ensure this may only operate take-away and delivery
services.
15.   Hawker centres and coffee shops provide convenient and affordable
food services within the community. As these are open-air and naturally
ventilated spaces, we will extend a special concession for both
vaccinated and unvaccinated persons to dine in the hawker centres and
coffee shops. But this will be subject to a smaller group size of up to
2 PERSONS ONLY.

16.   Dining-in at F&B establishments remains a high-risk activity
because many people will be unmasked and in close proximity with each
other. At this stage of the transition, entertainment such as live
performances, recorded music, and videos/TV screening will continue to
be prohibited. Patrons to F&B establishments are also reminded to adhere
to all safe management measures and keep their masks on at all times
except when eating or drinking.

(C)  Increase in Event Size and Capacity Limits

17.   The following event sizes and capacity limits will be increased.
The provision for children aged 12 years and below will also apply for
these events. Unvaccinated children may be included in a group of up to
5 persons if all the children are from the same household.

a)     Congregational and other worship services, cinemas, MICE, live
performances, and spectator sport events. Event sizes may increase to
500 attendees if all are fully vaccinated. Otherwise, only up to 50
attendees will be allowed without pre-event testing (PET). Unmasking and
singing or playing of wind instruments at live performances for
vaccinated performers may resume, subject to updated safe management
measures. Further details on live performances will be released by the
National Arts Council (NAC). Further details on worship services will be
released by the Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth (MCCY).

b)     Marriage solemnizations and wedding receptions. Marriage
solemnizations in external venues (i.e. not in a place of residence or
in the Registry of Marriages/Registry of Muslim Marriages building) may
take place with up to 500 persons (including the wedding couple but
excluding solemnizers and vendors) if all are fully vaccinated.
Otherwise, only up to 50 attendees will be allowed without PET. Wedding
receptions will be allowed with up to 250 attendees if all are fully
vaccinated, and with groups of up to 5 attendees per table.

ADJUSTMENTS FROM 19 AUGUST 2021

18.    If the COVID-19 situation remains under control, we will further
increase event sizes and capacity limits for the following activities
and settings from 19 AUGUST 2021:

a)   Congregational and other worship services, cinemas, MICE, live
performances, spectator sport events, and marriage solemnizations. These
events may take place with up to 1,000 attendees if all are fully
vaccinated. Otherwise, only up to 50 attendees will be allowed without
PET.

b)    Attractions, cruises, museums, and public libraries. The operating
capacity of attractions and cruises will be increased from the current
capacity of 25% to 50%. Museums and public libraries will also be
allowed to operate at an increased operating capacity of 50%.

c)    Shopping malls and showrooms. The occupancy limits for shopping
malls and showrooms will be increased from the current limit of 16 sqm
per person of Gross Floor Area, to 10 sqm per person.

19.   Work-from-home. We will also ease the work-from-home
requirements. In particular up to 50% of employees who are able to work
from home will be allowed to return to the workplace.

Removal of Temperature Screening Requirement

20.    With high levels of vaccine coverage among our population,
transmission among vaccinated individuals and disease severity in
vaccinated but infected persons are likely to be substantially lower. In
addition, we now have the ability to pick up infections earlier through
increased surveillance measures including self-test antigen rapid test
(ART) kits and rostered routine testing with fast and easy tests (FETs)
in higher risk settings. With these other targeted public health tools,
we will remove the requirement for temperature screening in public
premises, together with the other relaxation of measures planned from 19
AUGUST 2021 onwards. Nevertheless, it is important to continue
exercising good health-seeking behaviour when one is unwell by seeking
care as soon as possible, using a mask and avoiding crowded places.

TRANSITION TOWARDS COVID-19 RESILIENCE

21.    Looking ahead, when at least 80% of our population have received
their full vaccination regimens, we will be able to take the next steps
towards opening up our economy, social activities, and travel. At that
stage, we can consider further easing of restrictions, while continuing
with differentiated safe distancing rules for vaccinated and
unvaccinated persons. We will make these moves in a controlled manner,
synchronising the easing with our vaccination coverage, and seeking to
minimise the incidence of severe illness and death.

“VACCINATE OR REGULAR TEST” REGIME FOR SELECTED SECTORS OF THE WORKFORCE

22.      Although Singapore’s vaccination rates are one of the highest
in the world, we need to continue to expand our vaccine coverage. Hence
we will require vaccination, or regular testing in lieu, for selected
sectors of the workforce. Unvaccinated persons will be required to
undergo regular testing to pick up possible infections early so that
they can be treated early. This will also mitigate risk of transmission
to their colleagues and the public.

23.     This “vaccinate or regular test” regime will be introduced in
the following settings:

a)     First for those working in the healthcare sector, eldercare
sector and settings with children 12 years and below. This protects
vulnerable segments of the population such as the elderly, children and
sick.

b)     Second, for individuals working in sectors that interact with
customers in higher-risk mask-off settings, and at our borders or
COVID-19 frontline work. These sectors include F&B establishments, gyms
and fitness studios, and personal care services.

c)     Finally, the Public Service will take the lead in introducing
this requirement for public officers, including the uniformed services.

24.    We will give some time for individuals to get vaccinated, thus
the requirement will take effect from 1 OCTOBER 2021. Beyond that, any
unvaccinated persons from the above sectors will have to be tested with
an ART kit twice a week. For the small group that remains medically
ineligible for vaccines, the Government will subsidise their tests.

25.   More details will be released by the respective Ministries
overseeing the sectors. We strongly encourage all employers to
facilitate vaccination for your employees. A fully vaccinated workforce
ensures a safe workplace and safe environment for everyone. We will
continue to closely monitor our vaccination rates and review the need to
include other sectors in the future.

VACCINATION-DIFFERENTIATED BORDER MEASURES

26.   As we have reached higher vaccination rates locally, we will
progressively review some of our border restrictions to facilitate more
travel and introduce vaccination-differentiated border measures for
travellers from countries/regions that have shown an ability to control
the pandemic and vaccinate large parts of their population.

Resuming Entry Approvals for Vaccinated Work Pass Holders and Their
Dependants

27.   From 10 AUGUST 2021, the Ministry of Manpower will resume entry
approvals for work pass holders and their dependants with travel history
to higher risk countries/ regions. Eligible work pass holders and their
dependants must be fully vaccinated² before arrival in Singapore. They
will also be subjected to the prevailing health protocols in Singapore.

Option for 14-day Stay Home Notice (SHN) at Suitable Place of Residence/
Accommodation of Choice

28.   From 20 AUGUST 2021, 2359 HRS, all FULLY VACCINATED TRAVELLERS
[2] from AUSTRALIA, AUSTRIA, CANADA, GERMANY, ITALY, NORWAY, THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA (ROK), AND SWITZERLAND [3] may be able to apply to opt
out of dedicated SHN facilities and serve their 14-day SHN at their
respective places of residence (e.g. residential address) or other
suitable accommodation if they fulfil certain criteria (See ANNEX B for
details).

29.   All other travellers from the aforementioned countries/regions
must continue to serve the SHN in a dedicated SHN facility. As the list
of countries will be updated from time to time depending on the public
health risk assessment, all travellers are reminded to check the
SafeTravel website for updates to the border measures. They will be
subjected to these prevailing border measures upon entry, including
stays in dedicated SHN facilities and payment, where applicable.

TOWARDS A RESILIENT SINGAPORE LIVING WITH COVID-19

30.   We have made significant progress in vaccinating the Singapore
population. We must continue to push for higher vaccination coverage so
that in time to come, we may be able to treat COVID-19 no differently
from other diseases that are endemic to Singapore. It will then not
dominate our lives but become part of our new normal. We may continue to
see relatively high number of daily cases, but the majority of
vaccinated individuals will recover, and we can focus on the smaller
number of cases with severe illnesses or infections. We will continue to
find means to manage any new or emerging variants, and review strategies
such as vaccination boosters for the population. We thank Singaporeans
for your cooperation in these efforts. We must continue to work together
in this journey towards a COVID-19 resilient nation.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 AUGUST 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This refers to requiring oxygen supplementation, admission to ICU,
or having passed away.

[2] An individual is considered fully-vaccinated two weeks after he or
she has received the full regimen of Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty, Moderna
or WHO EUL vaccines.

[3] Travellers from Israel are no longer allowed to opt out of SHN at
dedicated SHN facilities due to the increase in cases.
