Update On Hiv/aids Situation In Singapore 2021 (december 2021)



UPDATE ON HIV/AIDS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE 2021 (DECEMBER 2021)


Published Date: 01 Dec 2021

_At-risk groups urged to go for regular HIV testing_



          A total of 198 newly diagnosed cases of human immunodeficiency
virus (HIV) infections were reported among Singapore residents¹ in the
first 10 months (January to October) of 2021. The number of cases
reported is 10% lower than the same period (January to October) in 2020
and could be related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic since early
2020.



2.  The Ministry of Health (MOH) has analysed 119 cases that
were reported in the first 6 months (January – June) of 2021. Of these
cases:



i.  93% were male;

ii.  48% were 20-39 years and 33% were 40-59 years; and

iii.  60% had late-stage HIV infection² at diagnosis. This is 6%
higher compared to the same period last year.



3.  Sexual intercourse remains the main mode of HIV
transmission, accounting for 94% of the 119 cases. Homosexual
transmission was the mode of transmission for 55% of all cases, while
35% were from heterosexual transmission and 4% from bisexual
transmission.



4.  The majority of newly reported cases (57%) were detected
by HIV tests performed in the course of medical care³, typically at a
late stage of HIV infection. Another 15% were detected during routine
programmatic HIV screening⁴ while 21% were detected through
self-initiated HIV screening. The rest were detected through other forms
of screening. A higher proportion of homosexuals/bisexuals (30%) had
their HIV infection detected via self-initiated HIV screening compared
to heterosexuals (10%).



5.  Annex A provides detailed data for cases reported from
1985 to June 2021. Information on newly reported HIV cases is regularly
updated on the MOH website.



PUBLIC ADVISORY



6.  The most effective way to prevent HIV infection is to
avoid casual sex. Persons engaging in high-risk sexual behaviour, such
as having multiple sexual partners or engaging in casual or commercial
sex, are strongly advised to use condoms to reduce their risk of HIV
infection and other sexually transmitted infections. Condoms should be
used consistently and correctly during every sexual encounter.



7.  MOH and the Health Promotion Board (HPB) urge individuals
at risk of HIV infection to go for regular HIV testing⁵. Regular HIV
testing and early diagnosis can facilitate early treatment and care.
This would also provide an opportunity for infected persons to protect
their partners from infection, as HIV-positive individuals who are on
treatment and have an undetectable viral load have practically no risk
of transmitting the virus to their sexual partners. With early and
effective treatment, persons living with HIV can continue to lead active
and productive lives.



8.  HPB has been working with partner organisations to
conduct programmes and campaigns to encourage high-risk individuals to
take proactive measures, such as going for early and regular HIV
testing. Adopting a lifestyle-based approach, these programmes engage
high-risk individuals via social settings to increase the targeted
reach. For more information on HIV prevention, please refer to
www.healthhub.sg.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

HEALTH PROMOTION BOARD

1 DECEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents.

[2] CD4+ cell count of less than 200 per mm3 or AIDS-defining
opportunistic infections or both.

[3] Includes cases who presented with HIV-specific symptoms and cases
with non-HIV related medical conditions.

[4] Includes screening programmes for individuals with sexually
transmitted infections, hospital inpatients and those identified through
contact tracing.

[5] HIV testing is available at polyclinics, private clinics and
hospitals. In addition, HIV testing can be done at ten anonymous HIV
test sites located across Singapore, where personal details are not
required when signing up for a HIV test.
