Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye Kung’s Attendance At the G20 Health
Ministers’ Meeting In Rome, Italy



MINISTER FOR HEALTH MR ONG YE KUNG’S ATTENDANCE AT THE G20 HEALTH MINISTERS’ MEETING IN ROME, ITALY


Published Date: 06 Sep 2021

Mr Ong Ye Kung, Minister for Health, attended the G20 Health Ministers’
Meeting (HMM) in Rome, Italy, from 5 to 6 September 2021.
2. The G20 HMM discussed strategies to tackle the current COVID-19
situation, and how countries can collectively be better prepared for
future pandemics. Attendees included the G20 and invited countries, as
well as several international and regional organisations. Singapore
attended the G20 HMM as a guest country at the invitation of Italy, the
current G20 presidency.
3. The G20 HMM adopted a Health Ministers’ Declaration that emphasised
the importance of strong multilateral collaboration in managing the
COVID-19 pandemic and supporting global recovery, with the WHO taking a
central and leading role. The Health Ministers also agreed that
vaccination was key, and set a target of vaccinating at least 40% of the
world by the end of the year. The declaration recognised the
wide-ranging impact of COVID-19, including on mental health and on
progress in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals¹. The
declaration also underscored the need to continue joint efforts to
better prevent, detect and respond to future global health risks and
emergencies.
4. During the three thematic discussions, Mr Ong emphasised the need for
stronger global governance and financing to better prepare for future
pandemics. He called for concrete follow-up on the reforms recommended
by the G20 High Level Independent Panel co-chaired by Ngozi
Okonjo-Iweala, Lawrence Summers and Senior Minister Tharman
Shanmugaratnam, and to support the WHO’s key role at the centre of
global health security. Mr Ong also emphasised the importance of
coordinating efforts in urban development, environment management,
social assistance, education and healthcare in strengthening health
emergency preparedness particularly in an urban setting, and in
supporting equitable access to vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics.
5. Mr Ong had bilateral meetings with his counterparts from the US, UK,
Indonesia, Germany, France and Spain on the sidelines of the G20 HMM as
well. He will hold meetings with the Italian Ministry of Health and the
Italian National Institute of Health tomorrow.
[1] The Sustainable Development Goals are the blueprint to achieve a
better and more sustainable future for all. They address the global
challenges we face, including poverty, inequality, climate change,
environmental degradation, peace and justice.

