Issuance of Correction Directions Under the Protection From Online
Falsehoods and Manipulation Act On Falsehoods On Covid-19 Vaccination



ISSUANCE OF CORRECTION DIRECTIONS UNDER THE PROTECTION FROM ONLINE FALSEHOODS AND MANIPULATION ACT ON FALSEHOODS ON COVID-19 VACCINATION


Published Date: 15 Apr 2021

           The Ministry of Health (MOH) is aware of falsehoods
circulating that the COVID-19 vaccination has clear and causal links
with stroke and heart attack. There are also third parties who have
exploited the sharing of personal experiences by individuals, by
reposting these personal accounts and making unsubstantiated claims
about vaccine-related adverse reactions. They often continue to do so
despite the original posts being removed or made private.

2.  The Minister for Health has instructed the POFMA Office to
issue Correction Directions on: (i) Facebook posts published on the
Facebook pages of Goh Meng Seng (Satu Singapura) and Goh Meng Seng
People’s Power Party on 2 April 2021 and 7 April 2021; and (ii) an
article by Singapore Uncensored published on their website and their
Facebook page on 7 April 2021. They will be required to carry a
correction notice alongside their posts.

CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS REGARDING FALSEHOODS POSTED BY GOH MENG
SENG AND SINGAPORE UNCENSORED

3.  There are false statements on COVID-19 vaccination
contained in multiple Facebook posts and a website, namely:

i.  Posts published on the Facebook pages of Goh Meng Seng
(Satu Singapura) and Goh Meng Seng People’s Power Party on 2 April 2021,
implying that COVID-19 vaccination had caused or substantially
contributed to a stroke suffered by a doctor;

ii.  Posts published on the Facebook pages of Goh Meng Seng
(Satu Singapura) and Goh Meng Seng People’s Power Party on 7 April 2021,
implying that COVID-19 vaccination had caused or substantially
contributed to the death of an 81-year-old man; and

iii.  An article published on the Singapore Uncensored website
on 7 April 2021 (and subsequently shared on the Facebook page of
Singapore Uncensored the same day) stating that an 81-year-old man had
passed away from alleged vaccination complications.

4.  These allegations are false. As of 14 April 2021, there is
no credible evidence for an increased risk of heart attack or stroke
with the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna COVID-19 vaccines which are
currently approved and offered in Singapore.

5.  The medical team caring for the doctor has assessed that
the doctor’s current condition is highly unlikely to be related to the
COVID-19 vaccination, and Mount Elizabeth Hospital had issued a
clarification on 4 April 2021.

6.  The cause of death of the 81-year-old man was ischaemic
heart disease (lack of blood circulation to the heart muscles). The
Health Sciences Authority (HSA) Forensic Medicine Division has reported
that based on the post-mortem, there was no evidence of acute
anaphylaxis or an allergic reaction at the injection site of the
COVID-19 vaccine. There was extensive narrowing of the three main blood
vessels supplying blood to the muscles of the heart due to
atherosclerosis (build up of plaques over time in the blood vessels that
obstruct blood flow).

7.  For facts of the case, please refer to the Factually
article “Corrections and Clarifications Regarding Falsehoods on COVID-19
Vaccination” at https://www.gov.sg/article/factually150421

8.  COVID-19 vaccines that are used in Singapore have been
assessed to be safe and efficacious by both the HSA and the Expert
Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination. Medical teams are well-equipped and
measures are in place at all vaccination sites to ensure the safety of
vaccine recipients pre-, during, and post-vaccination. All
vaccine-related incidents are taken seriously and healthcare
professionals are required to report these incidents expediently to the
MOH and HSA.

9.  We advise members of the public not to speculate and/or
spread unfounded rumors. Please visit www.moh.gov.sg for latest
information on the COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 APRIL 2021
