Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination's Assessment On Myocarditis and
Pericarditis Following Mrna Covid-19 Vaccination



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION'S ASSESSMENT ON MYOCARDITIS AND PERICARDITIS FOLLOWING MRNA COVID-19 VACCINATION


Published Date: 11 Jun 2021

1.     The Expert Committee has been closely monitoring international
reports that the second dose of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines may be associated
with a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis in young men. We have
reviewed the currently available international and local data. Our
assessment is that the benefits of receiving the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines,
i.e., reduction in COVID-19 infections and severe complications even if
infected, continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination.



MYOCARDITIS AND PERICARDITIS WITH MRNA VACCINES



2.     Myocarditis and pericarditis are inflammatory conditions
affecting the heart muscles and the outer lining of the heart
respectively. They occur more often in men compared to women. Patients
present with symptoms such as chest pain, shortness of breath or
abnormal heartbeats. Most cases are mild, recover without the need for
significant intervention and do not suffer any long-term effects,
although very rarely, severe cases may result in damage to the heart
muscles. Myocarditis and pericarditis are separate and distinct
conditions from heart attacks which are caused when blood flow to the
heart is blocked.



3.     Increased occurrences of myocarditis and pericarditis after the
second dose of mRNA COVID-19 vaccinations have been observed overseas
(Israel and the United States [US]) in adolescents and young men below
the age of 25 years. The risk of this has been estimated to be 1.6 cases
per 100,000 doses for mRNA vaccines in the US, which is comparable to
the risk of anaphylaxis observed in Singapore. To date, there is no
observed incremental risk of myocarditis and pericarditis after the
first dose of vaccine.



4.     Locally, the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) has reported 4 cases
involving young men aged between 18 to 30 years. This is at the upper
end of the expected range for this age group, based on background
incidence rates.  Most of the cases were reported to have occurred
within a few days after receiving the second dose of the vaccine.  All
have recovered or have been discharged well from hospital.



RECOMMENDATIONS



5.     While further studies and investigations are on-going, the
currently available data suggests that there may be a very small risk of
myocarditis and pericarditis after the second dose of an mRNA vaccine,
particularly in young men. As a precaution, EC19V recommends that
vaccinated persons, in particular adolescents and younger men, should
avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their second dose.
During this time, they should seek medical attention promptly if they
develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats.



6.     COVID-19 continues to be a health threat globally and in
Singapore. The emergence of infectious variants can lead to widespread
community COVID-19 transmission as well as the risk of severe COVID-19
disease and complications, including long term chronic complications.
EC19V assesses that the benefits of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccinations
continue to outweigh the known and potential risks.



 7.     EC19V will continue to monitor the available data as further
analyses are conducted locally and internationally and will provide an
update to the public.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
11 JUNE 2021
