Updates On Local Situation and Maintaining the Stabilisation Measures



UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION AND MAINTAINING THE STABILISATION MEASURES


Published Date: 20 Oct 2021

     Singapore entered the Stabilisation Phase on 27 September 2021 to
slow down the rate of transmission and ease the strain on our healthcare
system. Over the past four weeks, we have set up more COVID-19 Treatment
Facilities (CTF) and made improvements in the Home Recovery Programme
(HRP). We also simplified our healthcare protocols, allowing individuals
with mild or no symptoms to self-isolate early and recover at home. This
has allowed hospital capacity to be reserved for the vulnerable. To
better protect unvaccinated and vulnerable individuals, we further
expanded coverage of Vaccination-Differentiated Safe Management Measures
(VDS) to settings frequently visited by COVID-19 positive cases.



2.  We thank all Singapore residents for your cooperation
with the safe management measures over the past month. The stabilisation
measures have helped to moderate the rate of transmission. However,
daily case numbers are continuing to rise, and we are still seeing many
vulnerable patients needing intensive care unit (ICU) care. To allow
more time for the situation to stabilise further, and to protect our
healthcare system and workers, we will need to maintain our existing
community safe management measures.



UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION AND HOSPITAL CAPACITY



3.  So far the vast majority (98.6%) of cases continue to
have mild or no symptoms. This is due to our high vaccination coverage,
with 84% of the population having now completed their two-dose regimen.
Of the 495 cases with severe illness in the past few days, a
disproportionate proportion (54.7%) were unvaccinated, with the
remainder being vaccinated individuals with co-morbidities.
Unfortunately, the number of unvaccinated seniors above 60 years old who
are infected has risen over the past few days, to about 100 a day.



4.  The number of persons requiring ICU care is continuing to
rise at a similar rate as our overall case numbers, albeit with a lag.
We have had 80 new cases in ICU over the past two weeks, as compared to
46 over the preceding two weeks.



5.  With the rise in cases, we are also seeing more infected
persons being admitted into hospitals and treatment facilities.
Currently, 1,738 cases (around 10% of COVID-19 patients) are admitted
either into hospitals or CTFs because of more severe symptoms or
co-morbidities which require close observation. Seniors above 60 years
old and are not fully vaccinated comprise about two-thirds of the ICU
cases and deaths.



6.  We currently have about 1,650 isolation beds and 200 ICU
beds in the public hospitals. 89% of our isolation beds have been
filled. The occupancy rates for ICU beds, which consist of existing
COVID cases requiring ICU care, COVID-19 patients admitted to ICU for
monitoring, as well as non-COVID patients, stands at about 67%.



7.  To cope with the increase in cases, the Ministry of
Health (MOH) has been proactively working with the public, community and
private hospitals to set aside more beds for COVID-19 patients. We are
currently operating a total of 4,200 hospital and CTF beds. Of these,
about 200 are ICU beds, and another 100 can be stood up to handle ICU
cases at short notice. To reduce the load, the hospital clinical teams
have been actively referring more stable patients to CTFs for further
monitoring. Patients who require less monitoring will be referred to
Community Isolation Facilities (CIF) or HRP. The close coordination
between the different facilities and teams has enabled more streamlined
transfers to keep the hospitalisation numbers low.MOH is also working
with community hospitals to operate more CTF-type beds to ensure
continuity of care and assist in further recovery and rehabilitation of
recovering older COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities.



8.  Even as the public hospitals continue to set aside more
beds for COVID-19 patients, we have observed longer admission waiting
time for these patients. Hence, we have reduced non-urgent and
non-life-threatening care treatments, to alleviate the pressure on
public hospital capacity and manpower. Our private hospitals have also
been mobilised to attend to some of these non-urgent patients from our
public hospitals to ensure timely delivery of care.



MAINTAINING OUR STABILISATION MEASURES



9.  We entered the Stabilisation Phase on 27 September 2021
to slow the rate of transmission and protect our healthcare system.
Unfortunately, given the continuing pressures on our healthcare system,
more time is needed for the situation to stabilise. Hence, we will
extend the Stabilisation Phase from 25 OCTOBER 2021 THROUGH 21 NOVEMBER
2021. We will review the measures at the two-week mark and adjust these
based on the community situation then.



TARGETED SUPPORT MEASURES

_ _

10.  The Government will extend the support measures to tide
affected businesses and individuals over the extended Stabilisation
Phase from 25 October to 21 November 2021.



11.  The Government will extend the Jobs Support Scheme support
at 25% for sectors significantly affected by the continuing tightened
measures. These are: F&B, retail, cinemas, museums, art galleries,
historical sites, family entertainment, tourism, gyms and fitness
studios, and performing arts and arts education. Please refer to Annex
A for details.



12.  The Government will provide a 0.5 month rental waiver for
qualifying tenants on Government-owned commercial properties. Qualifying
tenant-occupiers and owner-occupiers of privately-owned commercial
properties will also be given a 0.5 month rental relief cash payout
under the Rental Support Scheme (RSS)¹. More details on the RSS will be
made available on the Inland Revenue Authority Singapore (IRAS) website.



13.  Cooked food and market stallholders in centres managed by
the National Environment Agency (NEA) or NEA-appointed operators will
receive a 0.5 month rental waiver.



14.  To support taxi and private hire car drivers, we will also
extend the COVID-19 Driver Relief Fund payout at $10 and $5 per vehicle
per day in November² and December 2021 respectively.



15.  The total sum of the support measures is $640m. This will
be funded from the higher-than-expected revenues collected to-date.
There will be no further draw on Past Reserves.



PROTECTING OUR VULNERABLE GROUPS



16.  During this period, we strongly encourage everyone to
practise social responsibility to abide by the prevailing safe
management measures, test regularly, and seek medical treatment if
feeling unwell. The elderly and persons with co-morbidities should take
extra precautions as they are more vulnerable to severe illness should
they get infected. Together, we will be able to ride out this wave of
infections safely and emerge stronger.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
20 OCTOBER 2021

[1] Small and Medium Enterprises and eligible Non-Profit Organisations
with an annual revenue not exceeding $100 million, who are
tenant-occupiers or owner-occupiers of qualifying commercial properties,
will be eligible for rental relief.
[2] This latest total payout of $10 per vehicle per day in November 2021
supersedes the $5 per vehicle per day payout announced previously.
