Issuance of Correction Direction Under the Protection From Online
Falsehoods and Manipulation Act On Falsehoods On Effectiveness of
Covid-19 Vaccines and Clarifications On Ivermectin



ISSUANCE OF CORRECTION DIRECTION UNDER THE PROTECTION FROM ONLINE FALSEHOODS AND MANIPULATION ACT ON FALSEHOODS ON EFFECTIVENESS OF COVID-19 VACCINES AND CLARIFICATIONS ON IVERMECTIN


Published Date: 24 Oct 2021

         Many of the materials published on the “Truth Warriors” website
mislead people into thinking that COVID-19 vaccines are not effective in
reducing transmission rates of COVID-19, and promote the safety and
efficacy of ivermectin in preventing viral infections and treating
COVID-19. These materials are from unverified and dubious sources, and
individuals who heed the advice of “Truth Warriors” can endanger
themselves and the people around them.
2.     The Minister for Health has instructed the Protection from Online
Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA) Office to issue a Correction
Direction to the “Truth Warriors” website for these falsehoods. The
website is required to publish the correction notice at the top of each
webpage containing the falsehoods.
3.     The Government takes a serious view of the deliberate
communication of these falsehoods, and criminal investigations will be
conducted.
CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS ON FALSEHOODS REGARDING COVID-19 ON
“TRUTH WARRIORS” WEBSITE
4.     In particular, the website has published false claims stating
that:
i. The most vaccinated countries have the most cases and deaths per
million population and the least vaccinated countries have the fewest
cases and deaths per million population; and
ii. Vaccines do not prevent the transmission of COVID-19.
5.     These claims are false. As of 23 October 2021, the weight of
international evidence shows categorically that vaccines reduce COVID-19
infection, as well as serious illness and mortality rates from COVID-19
infection. The latest data does not support the claim that countries
with the highest vaccination rates also have the highest cases/deaths
per million population. While some countries with the lowest vaccination
rates also have low reported COVID-19 deaths, this is likely due to poor
record collection for both vaccinations and deaths.
6.     While the vaccines do not completely stop viral transmission,
vaccines do reduce the risk of transmission. Vaccinated persons are less
likely to transmit the virus than unvaccinated persons. Furthermore,
while the vaccine on its own does not kill the virus, it is false to
suggest that the effect of the vaccine on the immune system does not
lead to the killing of the virus. The vaccines cause the body to produce
antibodies and immune cells that act against the virus and, in effect,
kill it.

7.     For facts of the case, please refer to the Factually article
“Corrections and Clarifications regarding content about COVID-19 by
“Truth Warriors” website at https://www.gov.sg/article/factually241021.
ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS
8.     The website also claimed that ivermectin prevents COVID-19
infection, and that it is safe and effective in treating COVID-19, even
for pregnant women. MOH and Health Sciences Authority (HSA) are aware
that there are members of the public trying to import or use ivermectin
for the prevention or treatment of COVID-19. Ivermectin is a
prescription-only medicine registered in Singapore specifically for the
treatment of parasitic worm infections. It is not an anti-viral medicine
and is not approved by HSA for preventing or treating COVID-19.
9.     Self-medicating with ivermectin can be dangerous to one’s health.
Side-effects associated with ivermectin include vomiting, diarrhoea,
stomach pain, neurologic adverse events (dizziness, seizures,
confusion), sudden drop in blood pressure, severe skin rash potentially
requiring hospitalisation, and liver injury (hepatitis). Ivermectin can
also interact with other medications used, such as blood thinners.
10.     HSA takes a serious view against those engaged in the illegal
sale and supply of medicines, including ivermectin, and will take strong
enforcement action against such persons. Anyone convicted of the illegal
sale of these medicines faces a penalty fine of up to $50,000 and/or
imprisonment for a period of up to two years under the Health Products
Act.
11.     The website also shares user-collated and unverified data on
suspected vaccine injuries in Singapore, citing the “SG Suspected
Vaccine Injuries” Telegram chat as its source. We advise members of the
public not to speculate and/or spread misinformation which may cause
public alarm, and to refer to credible sources of information instead.
12.     Please visit www.moh.gov.sg for the latest information on
COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations. For vaccine SAE statistics, please
refer to HSA and its Safety Updates published monthly. For information
regarding ivermectin and consumer safety, please visit www.hsa.gov.sg.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 OCTOBER 2021
