Updates On Local Situation, Border Measures for Bangladesh, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka, Thailand and Precautionary Measures to Minimise
Transmission From Tan Tock Seng Hospital Cluster



UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION, BORDER MEASURES FOR BANGLADESH, NEPAL, PAKISTAN AND SRI LANKA, THAILAND AND PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO MINIMISE TRANSMISSION FROM TAN TOCK SENG HOSPITAL CLUSTER


Published Date: 30 Apr 2021

        The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) has been closely monitoring
the local and global COVID-19 situation, and will be taking decisive
action to curb the COVID-19 infections in Singapore.
2.      We will further tighten our border measures given the sustained
increase in cases reported in the regions around Bangladesh, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In addition, from 2 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS,
travellers with recent travel history to Thailand will no longer be able
to opt out of serving their 14-day Stay Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated
SHN facilities.
3.      Within the community in the past week, we have identified new
clusters of infection linked to the Case 62517¹family cluster, at Tan
Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH), and amongst recovered workers at the Westlite
Woodlands Dormitory. The Ministry of Health (MOH) has worked with TTSH
to implement strict containment measures, and will also be tightening
safe management measures in the wider community to reduce the risk of
transmission within the community.
4.       It is of utmost importance that everyone continues to be
vigilant and take all necessary precautions against the spread of
COVID-19 infections in Singapore.
RESTRICTING TRAVEL FROM BANGLADESH, NEPAL, PAKISTAN AND SRI LANKA
5.       Travellers with travel history to Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan
and Sri Lanka within 14 days of their departure to Singapore are
currently required to serve a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities².
As there have been recent sharp increases in cases reported by
Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, we will further tighten our
border measures with these countries:
a.  From 1 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, until further notice, ALL LONG-TERM
PASS HOLDERS AND SHORT-TERM VISITORS WITH RECENT TRAVEL HISTORY
(INCLUDING TRANSIT) TO BANGLADESH, NEPAL, PAKISTAN AND SRI LANKA WITHIN
THE LAST 14 DAYS WILL NOT BE ALLOWED ENTRY INTO SINGAPORE, OR TRANSIT
THROUGH SINGAPORE. This will also apply to all those who had obtained
prior approval for entry into Singapore.
b.  All travellers with recent travel history to Bangladesh, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka who have yet to complete their 14-day SHN by 2
MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS³, will need to complete an additional 7-day SHN at
dedicated SHN facilities. They will undergo COVID-19 Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) tests on-arrival⁴, on Day 14 of their SHN, and another
test before the end of their 21-day SHN period.
TRAVELLERS FROM THAILAND TO SERVE 14-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN
FACILITIES
6.      Given the increased risk of community spread in Thailand, all
travellers entering Singapore from 2 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, who have a
travel history in the past 14 days to THAILAND will be required to serve
a 14-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities. They will
no longer be allowed to opt out of dedicated SHN facilities, even if
they have obtained approval to opt-out earlier.
7.      Travellers from Fiji and Vietnam are still allowed to apply to
opt out of dedicated SHN facilities and serve their 14-day SHN at their
place of residence, if they fulfil the following criteria:
a.  Travelled to no other country/region than above-mentioned
countries⁵, in the last consecutive 14 days prior to entry; and
b.  Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential address)
alone, or only with household members who are also persons serving SHN
with the same travel history and duration of SHN.
COVID-19 PCR tests will continue to be administered before the end of
the SHN.
UPDATE ON WESTLITE DORMITORY CLUSTER
8.        A total of 27 recovered workers were found to be positive for
COVID-19. These cases were immediately isolated upon detection. Of the
27 cases, 20 cases have been assessed or preliminarily assessed to be
shedding virus fragments of old infections, and five are likely to be
cases of COVID-19 re-infection. Two more cases have been determined to
be negative for COVID-19 upon re-testing. Of note, the five reinfection
cases are roommates of Case 62181 and 62225. Close contacts of these
cases in the dormitory and their workplace have been quarantined. Based
on the assessment thus far, this suggests that most COVID-19 positive
cases among recovered workers may be assessed to be old infections.
TIGHTER PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO RINGFENCE COMMUNITY CLUSTER AT TTSH
9.       13 COVID-19 cases have been identified amongst staff and
patients of TTSH. TTSH has taken immediate measures to lockdown the
affected wards. All close contacts of the identified cases, including
patients, visitors and staff who have been in the affected wards, have
also been placed on quarantine. All TTSH staff and patients who were in
TTSH Main Block Levels 3 to 13 from 18 to 28 April are being tested.
TTSH has also stepped up clinical surveillance of all inpatients who may
develop fever and ARI symptoms. This additional testing will enable us
to draw out any hidden links. Movement of healthcare workers into TTSH
will also be restricted⁶, including the suspension of all healthcare
student postings at TTSH and non-essential trainings.
10.      To reduce spread from undetected cases in the community, WE
WILL ALSO CLOSE ALL PUBLIC PLACES VISITED BY THE CASES DURING THEIR
LIKELY INFECTIOUS PERIOD FOR 2 DAYS FOR CLEANING, AND TO FACILITATE THE
TESTING OF STAFF AT THE AFFECTED PLACES FOR SURVEILLANCE AGAINST FURTHER
SPREAD. A full list of public places visited by the cases during their
infectious periods can be found in Annex A.
11.       We will carry out surveillance testing for patients who had
been discharged from, and visitors to, TTSH on or after 18 April; as
well as individuals who had been to or who work at the public places
that the TTSH cluster cases had visited during their infectious period⁷.
Healthcare institutions have also been reminded to closely monitor
patients who were previously admitted at TTSH from 18 April. While close
contacts of the confirmed cases who are at higher risk of infection have
already been identified through contact-tracing, the Ministry of Health
is offering tests to the aforementioned groups of individuals to
pre-emptively mitigate any potential risk of wider, undetected community
transmission. MOH advises all visitors and patients who were at TTSH
since 18 April 2021 to monitor their health closely for 14 days from
their date of visit. They are strongly encouraged to visit a Regional
Screening Centre (RSC) or Public Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC) for a
government-funded swab test.
12.      Starting from 3 May through 16 May 2021, these individuals may
book an appointment for a COVID-19 PCR test at any of the “Swab and Send
Home” (SASH) PHPCs islandwide (information on SASH clinics can be found
at phpc.gov.sg), or walk in to one of the following four RSCs⁸:
a.  Former Da Qiao Primary School, 8 Ang Mo Kio Street 54, S(569185);
b.  Former Shuqun Secondary School, 450 Jurong East Street 21,
S(609604);
c.  Former Coral Primary School, 20 Pasir Ris Street 51, S(518902);
d.  Former Bishan Park Secondary School, 2 Sin Ming Walk S(575565).
13.        We strongly encourage all individuals in the identified
groups to come forward for testing. Individuals will only need to bring
along their photo identification, and inform the PHPC or RSC staff of
the date and time they were at TTSH or the specified public places. The
cost of these tests will be fully borne by the Government.
REMAINING VIGILANT IN THE FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19
14.         Over the past week, we have seen an increase in the number
of local cases, some of which are currently unlinked and have resulted
in the formation of community clusters. We therefore have to move
quickly to reduce the level of interactions in the community and break
the chains of transmission. On 22 January 2021, MTF had announced that
visitors to households would be capped at 8 unique visitors per day.  In
addition, MTF had indicated that individuals should restrict themselves
to at most two other households per day, during the Chinese New Year
festive period. Going forward, all individuals should limit their
overall number of social interactions, to not more than two per day,
whether visiting another household or meeting with friends/ family
members in a public place. The following additional measures will be
implemented from 1 THROUGH 14 MAY 2021 (UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED):
a.  _Malls and large standalone stores:_ The occupancy limit will be
reduced to one person per 10 sqm of Gross Floor Area (GFA), from one
person per 8 sqm of GFA;
b.  _Popular malls (Lucky Plaza, Peninsula Plaza):_ The odd and even
date entry restrictions on Sundays will be reinstated⁹
c.  _Outdoor barbecue pits and campsites_: These will be closed to the
public, and includes barbecue pits in parks, HDB estates, condominiums
and country clubs.
d.  _ Attractions:_ With effect from 7 May 2021 through 14 May 2021, all
attractions that have received MTI’s prior approval will be permitted to
operate at 50% operating capacity, a reduction from 65%.
Further details will be released by the relevant sector leads shortly.
15.       It is crucial that all of us continue to remain vigilant to
avoid an uncontrolled resurgence of community cases. Everyone should:
a.  Avoid going to crowded places, and stay home where possible
b.  Limit social gatherings to 2 per day in total, whether to another
household or in a public place
c.  Keep groups as small as possible
d.  Stick to a regular group of contacts
e.  Stay home when unwell, and see a doctor to get tested when sick and
be vaccinated when it is offered to you
16.        Employers should allow employees to work from home if they
are able to do so. Employers should continue to stagger start times of
employees who need to return to the workplace, and implement flexible
working hours. Social gatherings at the workplace should also be
avoided. Public agencies working in the Novena area such as the Ministry
of Home Affairs and the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore will be
asking their staff to work from home where possible. These measures help
lower transmission risks by reducing interactions at the workplace and
in public places, including public transport.
17.        Our recent community cases show that the risks of a COVID-19
outbreak remains high, even as we press ahead with vaccination. We will
be stepping up enforcement efforts and will not hesitate to take action
against breaches of the rules. We will continue to review the current
suite of measures and will take further steps to tighten and
significantly reduce the level of interactions in the community should
transmission persist.
18.        We seek the cooperation of all Singaporeans to remain unified
and disciplined in the fight against COVID-19. Together, we can look
forward to a safer and healthier Singapore.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1 Case 62517 is a 38 year-old male Singaporean who works as an
Immigration & Checkpoints Authority Officer deployed at Changi Airport
Terminal 1. He was confirmed to have COVID-19 infection on 27 April.
² Travellers from Sri Lanka are also allowed to opt out to serve SHN at
their place of residence if they fulfil the criteria: (i) travelled to
no other country/region in the last 14 days and (ii) occupying their
place of residence alone or with household members with same travel
history and duration of SHN.

3 Includes travellers who enter Singapore before 1 May 2021, 2359 hours.
4 To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
⁵ Including the following countries/regions: Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Hong Kong, Macao, Mainland China, New Zealand and Taiwan
(correct as of 30 April 2021).

⁶ With the exception for doctors providing emergency and time-critical
services or where there is limited number of doctors in the specialised
area of care
⁷ As reported in the MOH press release dated 29 April 2021 and in
subsequent press releases.
⁸ Only asymptomatic individuals will be accepted at the RSCs. For
individuals who are feeling ill (e.g. have a cough, fever or running
nose), please see your doctor or visit a SASH PHPC instead. Individuals
may also be redirected to their nearest SASH PHPC in the event that the
RSCs are crowded. Opening hours for RSCs are 9am to 12pm, and 1pm to 4pm
daily.
9 Those whose National Registration Identification Card (NRIC) or
Foreign Identification Number (FIN) end in even digits (0,2,4,6,8) can
only visit the two malls on even dates, whilst those whose NRIC/FIN
numbers end in odd digits (1,3,5,7,9) can only visit on the odd dates.


