Stabilising Our Covid-19 Situation and Protecting Our Overall Healthcare
Capacity



STABILISING OUR COVID-19 SITUATION AND PROTECTING OUR OVERALL HEALTHCARE CAPACITY


Published Date: 24 Sep 2021

      Singapore entered the Preparatory Stage of our transition journey
to a COVID-19 resilient nation on 19 August 2021. We ramped up our
healthcare and response capacity as daily cases increased. We also
introduced Home Recovery, as most of the cases, especially younger or
vaccinated individuals, have mild symptoms or are asymptomatic and can
stay at home to recover.

2.    However, daily cases started to rise exponentially from end of
August 2021. While the number of COVID-positive individuals who become
severely ill – i.e., requiring oxygen supplementation and intensive care
unit (ICU) – remains within expectations, the number of individuals with
mild symptoms has increased very rapidly. This has put a strain on our
overall healthcare and response system and on our healthcare workers, as
many COVID-positive individuals with mild symptoms are seeking medical
attention at our hospitals when it might not be necessary.

3.    While we have been advising individuals with mild COVID-19
symptoms that it is appropriate to recover at home, we understand the
anxiety of some individuals to want to seek medical attention at
hospitals. The protocols and processes for home recovery are also new,
and we are still improving the system as people are adjusting to them.
There have also been service lapses as the numbers on Home Recovery
increased, which added to their anxiety. We are ironing out the teething
issues with the Home Recovery programme, and in the coming few weeks,
will further ramp up our care facilities to handle more cases.

4.    Most infection cases are mild in symptoms or asymptomatic and home
recovery is the most appropriate care protocol for them. But if the
overall number of cases continues to rise rapidly, we are also likely to
see a growing number of infected persons, especially among the elderly,
who do need hospital care. Hence, there is a need to slow down community
transmission. We will thus be tightening our community safe management
measures until our overall healthcare and response capacity has been
appropriately augmented.

UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION

5.    The large majority (98%) of cases were asymptomatic or had mild
symptoms. This is due to our high vaccination coverage, which is now at
82% of the population who have completed their full regimen. Of the 254
cases with severe illness in the last two weeks, a disproportionate 48%
were unvaccinated with the remainder being vaccinated individuals with
co-morbidities. This ratio needs to be understood in the context of more
than 80% of our population being fully vaccinated, indicating a vaccine
efficacy against severe illnesses that is still around 80% to 90%, with
the elderly and individuals with co-morbidities among the vaccinated
making up the 10% to 20% who remain susceptible despite vaccination.

6.    The number of persons requiring ICU is rising at the same rate as
our overall case numbers, albeit with a lag. We had 21 new cases in ICU
in the past week, as compared to 9 in the preceding week.

Right-siting Patients for Appropriate Care

7.    The most appropriate care management protocol for fully vaccinated
individuals aged 12 to 69 years will continue to be recovery at home[1].
These individuals are less likely to fall severely ill and there is no
need for them to be cared for in our hospitals. Similarly, parents with
infected children aged 2 to 11 years who choose to home recovery may
also do so after their children have been assessed in our hospitals for
suitability to do so.
8.    To make best use of our hospital facilities and beds, and allow
our hospitals to care for both their COVID-19 patients as well as the
many other non-COVID patients requiring hospital care, we will be
admitting those who are stable but do require closer monitoring to
appropriate intermediate care facilities where their care and close
monitoring needs will be met.
9.    Patients with co-morbidities, with a risk of potentially
developing severe illness, but who are otherwise asymptomatic or mildly
symptomatic will be closely monitored at Community Treatment Facilities
(CTFs), which are being set up progressively islandwide. These CTFs will
be closely partnered with our hospitals so that there will be seamless
escalation protocols for such patients to be conveyed from the CTF to an
acute hospital expeditiously for further treatment when necessary. This
is similar to the existing protocol for Community Care Facilities
(CCFs), but with a higher level of medical care at the CTFs to ensure
that these patients who are stable but at higher risk of serious illness
are cared for with the appropriate level of medical manning and
supporting equipment.

SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR STABILISATION PHASE

10.    If the infection continues at its current trajectory, we can
expect to reach a daily count of 3,200 and beyond within the next 2
weeks. Beyond that, there is a range of possibilities, but we cannot
rule out cases doubling further. To minimise the strain on our overall
healthcare capacity, we will have to tighten measures before that
happens. We would like to thank Singaporeans for reducing their level of
activity and interactions in the past two weeks. We do not need to
return to a Heightened Alert. But we have to do more to scale back
social interactions further in order to slow down community
transmissions and allow for better stability. The following measures
will take effect from 27 SEPTEMBER 2021 THROUGH 24 OCTOBER 2021. We will
review the measures two weeks after implementation and adjust these
based on the community situation then. Please refer to Annex A for
details.

Permissible Group Sizes

11.    Permissible group sizes for social gatherings will be reduced
from a maximum of 5 persons to a MAXIMUM OF 2 PERSONS. Correspondingly,
the maximum number of unique visitors per household will be reduced to 2
per day. Individuals should continue to limit their overall number of
social gatherings to not more than 1 per day, whether to another
household, or meeting with friends and family members in a public place.

Protecting Our Vulnerable Groups

12.    We strongly encourage all individuals to reduce social activities
and wear our masks diligently. In particular, the elderly and persons
with comorbidities who are more vulnerable to severe illnesses, should
stay home as much as possible, except for essential activities such as
working, buying food and groceries, seeing the doctor, and exercising
individually in uncrowded locations.

13.    In order to better protect younger children who are not yet
medically eligible for vaccination, the Ministry of Education (MOE) had
earlier announced that Home-Based Learning (HBL) will be implemented for
all Primary and Special Education (SPED) schools from 27 September
through 6 October 2021. Primary 6 students will go on a study break
prior to the Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE) from 25
September through 29 September 2021. As an added precaution, the HBL
PERIOD WILL NOW BE EXTENDED TILL 7 OCTOBER 2021, so that students can
continue to stay home for the rest of the week.

14.    Private Education Institutions (PEIs) must also implement HBL for
all students aged 12 years and below from 27 September to 10 October
2021, although preschool services in PEIs may remain open. During this
period, in-person tuition and enrichment classes for students aged 12
years and below must pivot online or otherwise be suspended. Preschools,
MOE kindergartens, KCare Services and Student Care Centres will remain
open during this period but parents are encouraged to keep their
children at home if they can. Please refer to MOE’s website for more
details.

Minimising Workplace Interactions

15.    WORK-FROM-HOME WILL BE THE DEFAULT for employees who are able to
work from home. During this period, the 10-day snap Work from Home
regime will be suspended. There should continue to be no
cross-deployment of workers to multiple worksites for those who need to
go into worksites to work. Social gatherings at the workplace will
continue to be disallowed. Employers should continue to implement
flexible working hours and stagger the start times of employees who need
to return to the workplace.

16.    Employees, contractors, and vendors who are unable to work from
home are strongly encouraged to self-test weekly via an Antigen Rapid
Test (ART) to keep infected employees from coming to work and keep their
workplace safe. Those who are able to work from home but need to return
to the workplace for ad-hoc reasons may do so after testing negative via
ART before returning onsite.

Dine-in at F&B Establishments

17.    GROUPS OF UP TO 2 PERSONS WILL BE ALLOWED TO DINE-IN AT REGULAR
F&B ESTABLISHMENTS IF ALL THE DINERS ARE FULLY VACCINATED. This is a
reduction from the current limit of 5 persons for dine-in. Unvaccinated
individuals with a valid negative pre-event test (PET) result, recovered
individuals, and children aged 12 years and below may also be included
in such groups of 2.

18.    F&B establishments that are not able to ensure that all dine-in
patrons meet the criteria for full vaccination may only operate
take-away and delivery services. At this stage of the transition,
entertainment such as live performances, recorded music, and videos/TV
screening will continue to be prohibited. Patrons to F&B establishments
are also reminded to adhere to all safe management measures and keep
their masks on at all times except when eating or drinking.

19.    Because hawker centres and coffee shops offer essential food
services to the community, the concession to dine-in at these premises
will remain at up to 2 persons, regardless of vaccination status.

Activity and Event Sizes and Pre-Event Testing Requirements

20.    Vaccination-differentiated safe management measures, mask
wearing, and proper distancing remain essential to ensure that large
events can proceed safely for attendees. The EVENT SIZES AND CAPACITY
LIMITS FOR CONGREGATIONAL AND OTHER WORSHIP SERVICES, CINEMAS, MICE,
LIVE PERFORMANCES, SPECTATOR SPORT EVENTS WILL REMAIN at up to 1,000
attendees if all are fully vaccinated. Otherwise, only up to 50
attendees will be allowed without PET. The concession for children aged
12 years and below, who cannot yet be vaccinated, will also apply for
these events. Such unvaccinated children may be included in a group of
up to two persons if the child is from the same household.

~~~~21.    Marriage solemnisations may continue, seated in groups of up
to 2 persons, if all are fully vaccinated. Home solemnisations will
continue to be allowed with up to 10 attendees. Otherwise, only up to 50
attendees will be allowed without PET. We acknowledge that wedding
couples have faced significant uncertainties over the past few months.
Hence, as a special concession, wedding receptions may be allowed to
continue with up to 250 attendees if all are fully vaccinated, and with
a group size of up to 5 persons per table. All wedding guests must
strictly abide by the safe management measures, and in particular
maintain social distancing and avoid mingling with others beyond their
own table. Given their higher vulnerability, we also strongly discourage
unvaccinated individuals and the elderly from attending such events, as
PET only reduces their risk to others but not the risk to themselves.

Targeted Support Measures

22.    The Government will enhance the Jobs Support Scheme support to
25% for the period of 27 SEPTEMBER 2021 THROUGH 24 OCTOBER 2021 for
sectors significantly affected by the tightened measures. These include
F&B, retail, cinemas, museums, art galleries, historical sites, family
entertainment, tourism, gyms and fitness studios, and performing arts
and arts education. Please refer to Annex B for details.

23.    The Government will provide a 2-week rental waiver for qualifying
tenants on Government-owned commercial properties. Qualifying
tenant-occupiers and owner-occupiers of privately-owned commercial
properties will also be given a 2-week rental relief cash payout under
the Rental Support Scheme (RSS)[2]. These will offset rent for half the
duration of the stabilisation phase. More details on the RSS will be
made available on the Inland Revenue Authority Singapore (IRAS) website.

24.    Cooked food and market stallholders in centres managed by the
National Environment Agency (NEA) or NEA-appointed operators will
receive a 2-week rental waiver.

25.    To support taxi and private hire car drivers, we will also extend
the COVID-19 Driver Relief Fund payout at $10 and $5 per vehicle per day
in October and November 2021 respectively.

26.    The total sum of the support measures is $650m. This will be
funded from the higher-than-expected revenues collected to-date. There
will be no further draw on Past Reserves.

ENCOURAGING REGULAR SELF-TESTING FOR ALL

27.    Regular testing is key to early detection of possible COVID-19
infection and allows individuals who test positive to take precautions
to self-isolate and protect their family, friends, and colleagues.
Individuals are encouraged to use their free kits distributed through
the nationwide distribution to self-test before visiting crowded places
such as wet markets and hawker centres or visiting elderly or children.
Those who are unable to work from home or who have to attend school are
also encouraged to self-test.

28.    Firms with employees that work onsite and are not already subject
to mandatory RRT may apply for 8 ART kits per onsite employee for weekly
testing of their staff over a two-month period as previously
announced[3]. Applications are open until 13 October and we strongly
encourage firms with employees who are unable to work from home, to
apply for ART kits. More details may be found
at www.go.gov.sg/time-limited-rrt-art.

29.    From 1 October 2021, we will also publish on the MOH website a
map of areas frequented recently by a larger number of confirmed
COVID-19 cases. We hope this can help guide individuals on your movement
and activities. Individuals who have been to these hotspots during the
same timeframe are encouraged to monitor their health, perform regular
ART self-tests throughout the 10 days following their potential
exposure, and minimise any unnecessary interaction with others.
SafeEntry and TraceTogether would continue to be used to inform
individuals of recent confirmed close contacts to infected persons or
recent exposure to an area of increased spread through Health Risk
Alerts and Health Risk Warnings.

30.    There have also been many queries over various tests – for
Quarantine, Health Risk Warnings, Health Risk Alerts. We will be putting
out public information through public advisory advertisements in the
newspapers to help guide the public.

Increased Weekend Testing Options for Individuals with Acute Respiratory
Symptoms

31.     Currently, individuals with acute respiratory symptoms can visit
private GP clinics – called Swab and Send Home (SASH) clinics – to take
a confirmatory polymerase chain reaction (PCR) swab test. However, we
recognise that not all SASH clinics are open on weekends to serve such
individuals. To facilitate prompt testing over weekends, from 25
SEPTEMBER 2021 (SATURDAY),we will open 8 Regional Screening Centres
(RSCs) and 3 Quick Test Centres (QTCs) on Saturdays and Sundays, so that
such individuals may get a free confirmatory PCR test. Such weekend
visits to the RSCs and QTCs are by appointment only, to prevent
overcrowding, with appointment booking only open from Friday, 6pm to
Sunday, 3pm of each weekend for bookings on that weekend. More details
are at www.go.gov.sg/ari-weekend-testing. We encourage symptomatic
individuals to get their confirmatory PCR test quickly so that they can
get appropriate care, if needed. This will also provide earlier
protection to family members, colleagues and friends who might otherwise
come into contact with the infected individual.

EXPANDING THE BOOSTER VACCINATION STRATEGY

32.    On 15 September 2021, we commenced the booster programme
for persons aged 60 and above and residents of aged care facilities. As
of 23 September 2021, almost 91,500 seniors have received their booster
dose. 56% of seniors who have been invited to-date for their booster
dose have either booked an appointment or already received their booster
dose.

33.    The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has been
closely monitoring the data regarding the need for additional vaccine
doses. It has further recommended for persons aged 50 to 59 years to
receive a booster dose of the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) mRNA
vaccine from six months after completing their primary course of
vaccination. Adults aged 50 to 59 years have a higher risk of underlying
comorbidities and hence a risk of severe illness as compared to younger
persons, and as many would have completed the full regimen of their
primary course of vaccination earlier in the year, their levels of
protection could have decreased over time. Boosting the immunity of
members of our population will ensure continued high levels of
protection against severe disease.

34.    MOH agrees with the EC19V’s recommendations. From 4 OCTOBER 2021,
we will progressively invite persons aged 50 to 59 years who have
completed their vaccination regimen with two doses at least six months
ago to receive their booster dose of a PSAR mRNA vaccine. An SMS with a
personalised booking link will be sent to the mobile number that they
had registered with for their first two doses, for them to book a new
appointment on www.vaccine.gov.sg. These individuals may receive their
booster dose at any vaccination centre, polyclinic, or participating
Public Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC).

Moderna Vaccine Dosage

35.    The EC19V has also further reviewed the dosing for the Moderna
vaccine used for boosting and recommended that 50mcg of the Moderna
vaccine be used for boosting given evidence that a 50mcg dosage is
sufficient to boost immune response significantly. Based on EC19V
recommendations and to ensure the efficient use of vaccines, from 25
SEPTEMBER 2021, vaccination sites carrying the Moderna vaccine will
begin administering the vaccine at a dosage of 50mcg for booster doses,
as compared to the 100mcg dose used in the primary vaccination course.
There are no safety concerns in persons who have already received 100mcg
of the Moderna vaccine for their booster dose.

36.    The 100mcg dose of the Moderna vaccine will continue to be used
for the two-dose primary series vaccination regimen, and three-dose
enhanced primary series for immunocompromised persons. For the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine, there is no change in dosage for both
the primary series and the booster dose.

TOWARDS A COVID-19 RESILIENT SINGAPORE

37.    We are staying the course to transit towards a COVID-19 resilient
nation. But we are still at the Preparatory Stage and have not reached
the stage where COVID-19 can be considered as endemic. In this journey
towards living with COVID-19, we have to make continual adjustments in
our measures to protect our healthcare system, and ensure it is not
overwhelmed.

38.    During this stabilisation phase, we seek everyone’s cooperation
to observe all safe management measures so that we can lower
transmission risks and slow down the pace of community infections.
Everyone needs to be socially responsible to take care of themselves and
minimise their unnecessary movement and social interactions. If you have
been exposed to positive cases, please isolate yourself, test yourself
regularly and seek medical treatment if you are symptomatic.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 SEPTEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The eligibility criteria are: (a) Fully vaccinated with PSAR mRNA
vaccine, (b) age 2-69 years old, (c) no other severe illnesses or
diseases and (d) no household members above 80 years old or belonging to
the vulnerable group.

[2] Small and Medium Enterprises and eligible Non-Profit Organisations
with an annual revenue not exceeding $100 million, who are
tenant-occupiers or owner-occupiers of qualifying commercial properties,
will be eligible for rental relief.

[3] Refer to the MOH press release titled ‘Collective Actions to Slow
Down Community Transmission’ on 6 September
2021: https://www.moh.gov.sg/news-highlights/details/collective-actions-to-slow-down-community-transmission
