Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From India, Westlite Woodlands
Dormitory Cluster and Additional Precautions for Recovered Persons



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM INDIA, WESTLITE WOODLANDS DORMITORY CLUSTER AND ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONS FOR RECOVERED PERSONS


Published Date: 22 Apr 2021

           The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation especially given the rapidly deteriorating
situation in India

2.  Within the community, we have picked up a few cases of
infection amongst recovered workers at the Westlite Woodlands Dormitory.
As a precautionary measure, we have conducted special COVID-19 testing
operations for all the workers at the dormitory. The Ministry of Health
(MOH), together with the National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID)
and an expert panel comprising of infectious diseases and microbiology
experts, is investigating for possible re-infection or if they are
persistent shedders from their earlier infection.

RESTRICTING TRAVEL FROM INDIA

3.  There is no evidence that the recent cases at the
Westlite Woodlands Dormitory are linked to the new strain from India.
But many of the arrivals from India are workers in the Construction,
Marine and Process (CMP) sectors. Even with our control measures, there
is still a risk that a leak may happen, and cause another wave of
infection in the dormitories.  It is also a concern that recovered
workers (i.e. those who had been infected earlier) are susceptible to
being re-infected.

4.  We will therefore further tighten our border measures
with India:

a.  All travellers with recent travel history to India who have yet to
complete their 14-day SHN by 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS[1], will need to
complete their additional 7-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities, instead
of their place of residence[2]. They will undergo COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) tests on-arrival[3], on Day 14 of their SHN, and
another test before the end of their 21-day SHN period.

b.  From 23 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS, until further notice, ALL
LONG-TERM PASS HOLDERS AND SHORT-TERM VISITORS WITH RECENT TRAVEL
HISTORY (INCLUDING TRANSIT) TO INDIA WITHIN THE LAST 14 DAYS WILL NOT BE
ALLOWED ENTRY INTO SINGAPORE, OR TRANSIT THROUGH SINGAPORE. This will
also apply to all those who had obtained prior approval for entry into
Singapore.

UPDATE ON WESTLITE WOODLANDS DORMITORY CLUSTER

5.  On 20 April 2021, a 35 year-old migrant worker (case
62181) living in Westlite Woodlands Dormitory was tested for COVID-19 as
part of the Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) regime. The Assurance, Care
and Engagement (ACE) Group from the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) and MOH
isolated and placed on quarantine his close contacts at the dormitory
and workplace. One person placed under quarantine, who is a room-mate of
this case, was found to be COVID-19 positive at a dedicated quarantine
facility. As a precautionary measure, special COVID-19 testing
operations is being conducted at the dormitory. As of 22 April 2021, a
total of 17 recovered workers were found to be COVID-19 positive, in
addition to the worker who had earlier been placed under quarantine.
These cases were immediately isolated and conveyed to NCID. MOH,
together with NCID and an expert panel comprising of infectious diseases
and microbiology experts, is investigating for possible re-infection or
if they are persistent shedders from their earlier infection. The number
of actual re-infection cases will be announced when ready.

6.  In the meantime, public health measures to prevent and
contain the possible spread of infection have been implemented in the
dormitory, include imposing quarantine orders on workers at the affected
blocks and widening the extent of the special testing operations to the
entire dormitory.

ADDITIONAL PRECAUTIONS FOR RECOVERED PERSONS

7.  MOH and MOM, in consultation with infectious disease
specialists, have reviewed the latest scientific evidence from the
cohort of recovered persons in Singapore nearing one year from the date
of infection and found that the evidence suggests a possible gradual
decrease in antibody levels in recovered persons. Immunity in recovered
persons can wane, and caution is required around the infection risks in
recovered persons.

8.  With effect from 29 APRIL 2021, recovered
dormitory-dwelling workers and CMP workers who are living in Singapore,
and who have crossed 270 days from the date of COVID-19 infection, will
no longer be exempted from prevailing public health measures. They will
be enrolled back on RRT once they have passed 270 days from the date of
past infection and, if identified as close contacts, will be subjected
to quarantine to identify potential re-infection and mitigate the risk
of spread. Newly arrived migrant workers with a serology positive result
will also be enrolled onto 14-day RRT.

9.  With the emergence of new variants of concern around the
world, we will closely monitor for re-infection of recovered COVID-19
cases, and are reviewing our border measures for recovered travellers.
All newly arrived migrant workers from higher-risk countries/ regions,
including those with a positive serology result, will now have to
undergo SHN at a dedicated facility before being onboarded at Migrant
Workers Onboarding Centre (MWOC) for an additional testing regime.
Imported cases suspected of re-infection will be isolated and undergo
repeat COVID-19 PCR tests to monitor the trend of their viral loads, to
ensure that such cases are detected promptly.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

10.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust
our border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission
to the community with changes updated on the SafeTravel website. MOH
will also continue to review the data and evidence on any new viral
strains and update the measures accordingly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Includes travellers who enter Singapore before 23 April 2021, 2359
hours.

[2] The charges for the 21-day SHN at the dedicated SHN facilities is
S$3,000. Costs of COVID-19 PCR tests not included.

[3] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
