Updates On Local Situation, Testing and Vaccination Efforts In
Transition Towards Covid Resilience



UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION, TESTING AND VACCINATION EFFORTS IN TRANSITION TOWARDS COVID RESILIENCE


Published Date: 27 Aug 2021

        COVID-19 testing remains a key enabler for the safe resumption
of economic and social activities. Hence, we are enhancing our support
for individuals and companies to enable self-testing and regular
workplace testing. With a majority of the eligible population already
vaccinated, we will be making adjustments to our vaccination
administration system. We will close four out of 37 mass vaccination
centres, and shift vaccination operations to our regular healthcare
providers, Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs), mobile and home
vaccination teams. This will improve the effectiveness of our outreach
in line with the new situation.
LOCAL SITUATION UPDATE
2.      Our National Vaccination Programme has made good progress. As of
26 August 2021, 79% of our total population have completed the full
regimen and we are on track to meeting our target of 80% by the end of
August.
3.      There has been an uptick in COVID-19 cases in the past four
days. As at 26 August, the number of new local cases has increased from
an average of 47.1 cases per day in the week before to 76.0 cases per
day in the past week. Of the cases in the past week, 98.9% were
asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and did not need dedicated medical
care. The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) is watching the situation
closely to ensure that the number of cases with severe symptoms remain
under control and do not strain our healthcare system.
4.      We urge Singaporeans to self-regulate your social activities to
help reduce potential transmission, conduct self-tests to monitor your
own health, and to seek medical care early if you are exhibiting
symptoms of acute respiratory infection, however minor.
NATIONWIDE DISTRIBUTION OF ANTIGEN RAPID TEST (ART) KITS
5.      As Singapore gradually transits to being a COVID-19 resilient
nation, society will play an increasingly important role to manage the
pandemic. A major aspect is to exercise personal responsibility to
self-test and monitor our own health status. To support this, the
Ministry of Health (MOH) will be distributing ART self-test kits to all
residential households from 28 August to 27 September 2021, via
SingPost. Each household will receive a package containing six ART
self-test kits.
6.      The Ministry of Education (MOE) and Early Childhood Development
Agency (ECDA) will also be distributing ART kits from mid-September to
all students and staff in ECDA-licensed preschools, MOE Kindergartens,
Early Intervention centres[1], primary schools and Special Education
schools (primary/junior sections). MOE/ECDA will be distributing three
ART kits per student/staff.  This will be in addition to the nationwide
distribution of ART kits.
7.      These distribution exercises are part of a broader strategy to
step up our testing efforts. The MTF will be sharing more about this
strategy in the coming week. As we become a very highly vaccinated
country, we will need to shift our emphasis to testing and surveillance,
including self-testing, as an effective means to control the pandemic
proactively.
8.      In particular, self-testing with ART kits is a convenient and
quick measure to give peace of mind to any individual worried about
asymptomatic infection after possible contact with a positive case. This
is also part of our personal and civic responsibility to ensure a safer
community for all.
9.      The list of ART self-test kits and instructions on how to use
them are available at go.gov.sg/selftestART. If you require more ART
self-test kits beyond what we have distributed, these are now widely and
conveniently available for purchase at various community retail
pharmacies, general retail shops as well as e-commerce platforms.
EXTENDING COVID-19 TESTING SUBSIDIES
10.      Even as we make our gradual transition to being a COVID-19
resilient nation, we must stay vigilant and be ready to quickly detect
and isolate cases early in settings where big clusters can develop. To
this end, the Government has required Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) and Fast and Easy Testing (FET) RRT of
workers at higher risk of COVID-19 exposure and spread. These include
workers who live in dormitories, work in the construction, marine and
process, aviation, or maritime sectors, or work in settings with
unmasked and vulnerable clients/ patrons, such as F&B establishments,
personal care services, gyms and healthcare services.
11.      The Government had previously extended the subsidy for
mandatory PCR and FET RRT in these sectors until 30 September 2021. As
we resume more activities, mandatory PCR and FET RRT will continue to
play a key role in mitigating COVID-19 transmission risks in these
sectors. The Government will therefore extend the subsidy for mandatory
PCR and FET RRT for vaccinated workers until 31 December 2021.
12.      For unvaccinated workers, the MTF had previously announced
additional testing requirements under the “Vaccinate or Regular Test”
(VoRT) regime[2] from 1 October 2021. Under VoRT, unvaccinated workers
are required to be tested twice a week at their own expense[3]. This
will allow infections among them to be picked up quickly and treated
early, as they are more likely to suffer severe illness if infected; and
in the process it will also mitigate the risk of community transmission
arising from the higher likelihood of infections among the
unvaccinated.
13.      Unvaccinated workers in the sectors where PCR or FET RRT are
mandated will already be subject to regular testing under these regimes.
These mandated tests will continue to be subsidised by the Government.
So in such instances, the unvaccinated workers will only need to pay for
the additional tests that are needed to meet the twice a week testing
requirement under the VoRT.
14.      For the small group of workers who are medically ineligible for
vaccines, the Government will continue to subsidise the costs of all
their required tests (i.e. be it for the mandatory PCR/FET RRT or VoRT
regimes) until 31 December 2021.
15.      Beyond 2021, employers and businesses should be prepared to
factor in testing costs into their normal business operations. We will
continue to review the testing subsidies to ensure they support our
public health efforts, while sharing the costs equitably between
taxpayers, employers and individuals.
16.      We strongly encourage all employers to facilitate vaccination
of your employees. A fully vaccinated workforce ensures a safe workplace
and creates a safe environment for everyone.
CLOSURE OF SELECTED VACCINATION CENTRES
17.      With almost 80% of the population having completed their full
vaccination regimen, the number of vaccinations per day has dropped
sharply, to less than a quarter of its peak. We will therefore
progressively reduce the number of mass Vaccination Centres. Instead, we
will shift vaccination operations to more PHPCs, as well as mobile and
home vaccination teams for the seniors.
18.      By the end of September, four mass Vaccination Centres, namely
Bukit Timah Community Club, Kolam Ayer Community Club, Marsiling
Community Club and Yuhua Community Club will be closed. We will be
ceasing new bookings for Marsiling Community Club and Kolam Ayer
Community Club from 2 September, and Bukit Timah Community Club and
Yuhua Community from 9 September. We will increase the number of PHPCs
administering COVID-19 vaccinations from the 65 clinics today to more
than 80 clinics in September.
WORKING TOGETHER TOWARDS COVID-19 RESILIENCY
19.      Through the collective efforts of Singaporeans, we are
confident that we will reach a state where we can live normally and
safely with COVID-19 among us. We seek everyone’s continued cooperation
to come forward for vaccination if you have not yet done so, seek
medical care if feeling unwell, practise good hand hygiene, self-test
regularly, and self-regulate social interactions at a restrained level.
Together, we will be able to emerge stronger.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
27 AUGUST 2021

¹ Centres offering government funded programmes such as the Early
Intervention Programme for Infants and Children (EIPIC) and the Pilot
for Private Intervention Providers (PPIP).
² Announced by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce on 6 August 2021 and 13
August 2021.
³ Refer to the Advisory on COVID-19 Vaccination at the Workplace issued
on 23 August 2021.


