More Vaccination Centres Nationwide With the Roll-out of the Moderna
Vaccine



MORE VACCINATION CENTRES NATIONWIDE WITH THE ROLL-OUT OF THE MODERNA VACCINE


Published Date: 16 Mar 2021

          As of 15 March 2021, we have administered more than 792,000
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. In total, more than 549,000 individuals
have received at least the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, of whom
about 243,000 have also received their second dose, and hence completed
the full vaccination regimen. Since vaccination for seniors commenced
island-wide on 22 February, more than 175,000 seniors have received
their first dose, and about 230,000 seniors have made appointments to
receive their first dose in the next few weeks.
MORE VACCINATION CENTRES TO BE SET UP
2.            The Ministry of Health (MOH) is ramping up the setting up
of more COVID-19 vaccination centres island-wide, to accelerate the pace
of vaccination and provide greater convenience for Singaporeans and
long-term residents to receive their vaccination. All vaccination
centres are well-equipped to handle medical exigencies, with trained
doctors and nurses on-site to provide medical advice and treatment.
3.            As of 16 March 2021, a total of 24 vaccination centres are
in operation, on top of the 20 polyclinics and 22 Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) that are also in operation. Seven more
vaccination centres, located at Bukit Batok, Bukit Merah, Jurong West,
Punggol, Sengkang, Tampines and Woodlands, will progressively commence
their operations from 17 March. By mid-April, there will be a total of
40 vaccination centres island-wide. All vaccination centres are
wheelchair-friendly to provide easy access to seniors who have mobility
concerns. Please refer to Annex A for a list of the current and upcoming
vaccination centres.
4.            Four of the seven upcoming vaccination centres will
administer the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine. These four vaccination centres
are at Hong Kah North Community Club, Marsiling Community Club, Punggol
21 Community Club and Radin Mas Community Club. The other vaccination
centres, polyclinics and selected PHPCs will continue to offer the
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. As more supplies of the Moderna
COVID-19 vaccine arrive, more vaccination centres will offer the Moderna
COVID-19 vaccine.
5.            Each vaccination centre will only stock and administer one
type of vaccine. Individuals must select the same vaccination centre for
both their first and second appointments, when booking via the national
appointment system. As the vaccination capacity of each vaccination
centre is not the same, the waiting times for first dose vaccination
will differ between the vaccination centres. Do check for the
availability of appointment slots in other centres if you are unable to
secure your desired vaccination appointment dates at the nearest centre.
We encourage individuals to book your appointments at vaccination
centres, which have higher capacity than polyclinics.

APPEALS FOR EARLY VACCINATION
6.            We will offer vaccination to more segments of the
population from April onwards, so that all Singaporeans and long-term
residents in Singapore will have the chance to be vaccinated by
end-2021. In the meantime, we have received appeals from members of the
public who wish to receive their vaccination early for a variety of
personal reasons. While our focus has been to vaccinate identified
priority groups on public health considerations, as more vaccine
supplies arrive, we will consider allowing Singapore Citizens and
Permanent Residents with very exceptional circumstances to receive their
vaccination earlier, such as:
   a)  Those who have an urgent need to travel overseas to take up or
complete a formal education or vocational programme, or to be based
overseas for work, where remote learning or working is not an option.
   b)  Those who wish to travel overseas to visit or care for a
critically ill immediate family member, or to seek medically necessary
treatment that cannot be reasonably received in Singapore.

7.            Individuals who plan to appeal for early vaccination
should cater for the time needed to complete the full course of
vaccination in Singapore in their plans. For the current vaccines
available, two doses are required three to four weeks apart, and the
vaccines will be fully effective a further two weeks after the second
dose. Individuals should thus aim to complete the application form at
https://vaccine.gov.sg/appeal around eight weeks in advance, and
successful applicants will be notified via email. We will do our best to
accommodate all appeals that meet the stated criteria. But as vaccine
supplies are limited, priority will be given to those travelling to
higher risk countries or regions.
8.            We are also working with hospitals and clinics to provide
earlier vaccination for their patients with complex chronic medical
conditions who would be more vulnerable to severe complications if they
were to fall ill with Covid-19. For such patients, their doctors will
discuss with them whether they are eligible for vaccination, based on
their individual circumstances.

VACCINE INJURY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME OPEN FOR APPLICATIONS
9.              The Vaccine Injury Financial Assistance Programme for
COVID-19 vaccination (VIFAP) will be open for applications from 17 March
2021. VIFAP will provide financial assistance to Singapore Citizens,
Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass holders vaccinated under the
national vaccination programme, in the rare event that a person suffers
from serious side effects that are assessed to be related to their
COVID-19 vaccination. This is to give greater peace of mind for those
deciding on taking up the vaccination.
10.          The quantum of the one-time goodwill pay-out under the
VIFAP is based on the severity of the serious side effects attributed to
the COVID-19 vaccines. Persons may qualify for one of the following
tiers of pay-out:
   a)  One-time pay-out of $2,000 for individuals who required inpatient
hospitalisation and medical intervention, and subsequently recovers;
   b)  One-time pay-out of $10,000 for individuals who required
admission to High Dependency or Intensive Care, and subsequently
recovers; and
   c)  One-time pay-out of $225,000 for individuals who die or suffer
permanent severe disability as a result of COVID-19 vaccination.

11.          The inclusion of the $2,000 pay-out, in addition to the
other two tiers which were earlier announced, is meant to strengthen
support provided to individuals who suffer from serious side effects due
to COVID-19 vaccination. The VIFAP is not meant to reimburse medical
costs. It provides an additional layer of financial support, on top of
the existing government healthcare financing schemes for medical costs
incurred, which include government subsidies, MediShield Life, MediSave
and MediFund.
12.          To apply for VIFAP, individuals will need to submit an
application accompanied by medical information on the serious side
effect from their treating doctor. All applications will be reviewed by
an independent clinical panel for the relatedness and severity of the
side effect(s) to the COVID-19 vaccine received. More information on how
to apply can be found at www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/vaccination/vifap.
13.          Vaccination is critical to keep us and our loved ones safe
from COVID-19, and it is a key enabler for us to return to normalcy.
While COVID-19 vaccination is voluntary, we strongly encourage
Singaporeans and long-term residents who are medically eligible to come
forward for vaccination when their turn comes.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 MARCH 2021
