Covid-19 Mental Wellness Taskforce Proposes Recommendations to Enhance
National Mental Health Strategy



COVID-19 MENTAL WELLNESS TASKFORCE PROPOSES RECOMMENDATIONS TO ENHANCE NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH STRATEGY


Published Date: 23 Aug 2021

The COVID-19 Mental Wellness Taskforce (CoMWT), which was convened in
October 2020, has completed its review of the psychosocial impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on the population.
2. Amongst its findings, the CoMWT has identified three key issues that
require a whole-of-government (WOG) approach to address. Moving forward,
the Ministry of Health (MOH) will act on the CoMWT’s recommendations and
enlarge the Taskforce into an inter-agency platform to oversee the
development of a national overarching mental health and well-being
strategy. Named the Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and
Well-being, the platform will also coordinate interagency efforts and
monitor outcomes, focusing on cross-cutting issues that require multi-
and inter-agency collaboration. The new platform will be chaired by
Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Health, Dr Janil Puthucheary.
3. COVID-19 has brought unprecedented shifts into our lives. The fear of
infection, changes in our daily routine and social isolation brought
about by safe management measures, as well as economic uncertainty, are
stressors that have impacted the mental well-being of many individuals.
A number of local statistics and studies have described the significant
impact of COVID-19 on the mental well-being of different segments of the
Singapore population.
I. IMPACT ON GENERAL POPULATION
4. In an in-depth study conducted by the Institute of Mental Health
(IMH) to assess the Singapore population’s psychological responses and
mental well-being during the pandemic, about 13% of the surveyed
population reported experiencing symptoms of depression or anxiety in
the period from May 2020 to June 2021.
II. IMPACT ON YOUTH
5. Between April and December 2020, the National Youth Council (NYC)
conducted regular polls on Singaporean youths’ challenges and sentiments
on COVID-19. Mental well-being was a challenge for over half of the
youth population (52%) polled during the second half of 2020.
6. The top stressors cited by youth were anxiety over the future (53%),
stress over finances (41%), and worries about academic or work
performance (39%). These findings highlighted the importance of
identifying ways to support our youth through the pandemic, such as
strengthening their ability to cope with anxiety and uncertainty,
promoting help-seeking behaviours and peer support efforts, and provide
assurances about education prospects and career support.
III. IMPACT ON OLDER ADULTS
7. Based on the findings of a Singapore Life Panel study by the
Singapore Management University Centre for Research on Successful Ageing
(ROSA)¹ which assessed the attitudes, behaviours and well-being of older
Singaporeans during  COVID-19, respondents reported a stark increase in
feelings of isolation as the Circuit Breaker began in April 2020, with
larger increases for those living alone. Research has shown that social
isolation is often associated with negative mental health outcomes. It
thus recommended for social and mental well-being efforts to be
strengthened and more targeted at those who live alone.
IV. INCREASED UTILISATION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
8. The Institute of Mental Health (IMH) Mental Health Helpline saw 50%
more callers in 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, with a peak
seen in April 2020 which coincided with the start of the Circuit
Breaker. Towards the end of 2020, the number of calls gradually
decreased to 2019 levels, although it subsequently increased again
between January and May 2021. Some of the initial concerns cited by
callers included anxiety from having to adjust to working from home or
home-based learning and being socially isolated, although less of such
concerns were cited following June 2020. Concerns which persisted
included friction with family members and concerns over job insecurity.
9. The National CARE Hotline (NCH) was launched in April 2020 to provide
support to those facing mental health concerns such as anxiety and
adjustment issues related to COVID-19.  As of end  May 2021, the hotline
handled over 45,000 calls. The top three concerns cited by callers to
the NCH pertained to the need of emotional support, mental health
related issues and family-related or social matters.
10. Efforts by mental health teams, the community as well as agencies
and organisations across various sectors to address the psychosocial
impact of COVID-19 have culminated in the introduction or ramp-up of
over 40 initiatives, which can be categorised into the following three
broad categories:
a) Upstream initiatives to promote mental well-being and prevent the
development of mental health conditions. This applies to the general
population and specifically, parents and families; children and youth;
workplaces and working population; and seniors.
b) Downstream initiatives to facilitate the early detection, treatment
and support of those at-risk of or with mental health needs.
c) Other COVID-19 initiatives to address stressors which can impact
mental well-being, e.g. SGUnited Jobs and Skills Package, COVID-19
Recovery Grant.
11. The Taskforce has also identified three key issues to address.
a) Need for Overarching Whole-of-Government Strategy: Currently, a range
of agencies play different roles in the mental health and well-being
landscape. We need to build an overarching strategy to guide the
alignment and track progress of efforts across the different agencies.
b) Need for Better Signposting Given Wealth of Resources: There are
numerous online resources on mental health and well-being and this can
be confusing and overwhelming for those who are searching for
information. Engagement sessions with members of the Youth Mental
Well-being Network² revealed that there are also concerns with the
currency, legitimacy and credibility of the information found on these
numerous online resources.
c) Better Alignment of Mental Health Training Resources and More Trained
Mental Health Professionals: Multiple agencies conduct mental health
training for different target groups in the community, including the
general public, frontline officers, and mental health professionals. As
such, there is a need to review and standardise the various training
curriculum. We need to establish a common set of training standards,
support the training of different providers  to achieve the requisite
competency levels, and ensure that the trainings achieve the intended
training goals and outcomes.
KEY RECOMMENDATIONS
I. DEVELOP AN OVERARCHING STRATEGY ON MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
STRATEGY
12. The Taskforce recommends the development of a National Mental Health
and Well-being Strategy, which will provide overarching WOG goals and
strategies to improve mental health and well-being for the population,
as well as guide and align the various agencies’ individual efforts. The
Government will engage the public on the development of this strategy
through a public consultation to be carried out next year.
II. DEVELOP A ONE-STOP ONLINE PORTAL FOR NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH
RESOURCES
13. The Health Promotion Board (HPB) is developing a national portal for
mental health and well-being content which will be curated by experts
and target individuals who want to find information for themselves or
their loved ones. HPB has started work on this with relevant agencies to
develop the one-stop portal on HealthHub. HPB is planning to roll out
the pilot version of the portal in the later part of this year.
III. DEVELOP A NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH COMPETENCY TRAINING FRAMEWORK
14. The Taskforce recommends setting up a national mental health
competency framework, with a common set of training standards and
clearly defined degrees of competencies expected of professionals and
para-professionals who support persons with mental health conditions.
The agencies which provide mental health training to community members
have begun work to map out their mental health training programmes
according to the proposed framework.
INTERAGENCY TASKFORCE ON MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
15. To move beyond providing mental health support for the population
from COVID-19, MOH and the Ministry of Social and Family Development
have set up the new Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and
Well-being, which will oversee mental health and well-being efforts,
focusing on cross-cutting issues that require interagency
collaborations. The new platform will be chaired by SMS Janil
Puthucheary and will include overseeing the implementation of the three
recommendations from the CoMWT. This platform will also track the
progress of implementation and impact of the Strategy at the national
level. Please refer to Annex for the list of Taskforce members.

[1] Straughan, PT et al. (2020) Attitudes, behaviours, and the
well-being of older Singaporeans in the time of COVID-19: Perspectives
from the Singapore Life Panel. ROSA Research Briefs.
[2] The Youth Mental Well-being Network, supported by MOE, MOH and MSF,
brought together more than 1,500 passionate individuals from various
backgrounds to generate and implement ideas to support youth mental
well-being.

