Speech by Minister for Health, Mr Ong Ye Kung, At the Nurses’ Merit
Award 2021, 7 July 2021



SPEECH BY MINISTER FOR HEALTH, MR ONG YE KUNG, AT THE NURSES’ MERIT AWARD 2021, 7 JULY 2021


Published Date: 07 Jul 2021

Ms Paulin Koh, Chief Nursing Officer,
Nurses,
Distinguished Guests,
Ladies and Gentlemen
       It gives me great pleasure today to join you for the 2021 Nurses’
Merit Award.  This is a noble profession because every day, you touch
the lives of many people through your dedication, care and compassion.
While this is the first time I am officiating this ceremony, it is not
the first time I worked with nurses.

2.    In 2005, I was leading the new Statutory Board called Workforce
Development Agency (WDA).  It was around that time that we recognised
that the economy is evolving rapidly, and we need to retrain mid-career
workers to switch into new professions and industry sectors.  So we
started a new scheme. It has a big name, called Strategic Manpower
Conversion Programme (SMCP). Today we just call it Professional
Conversion Programme.

3.   We needed a successful pilot programme, and so we asked ourselves:
which profession should these mid-career workers convert into?  It
should be a sector that offers a good career and in great need for
manpower.  And therefore, SCMP (Nursing) got started, and that was also
how Nanyang Polytechnic started its mid-career nursing programme.
4.   Training duration was long, and quite expensive, but Government
provided the budget nevertheless.
5.   As it turned out, it was really difficult to recruit trainees.
Despite the heightened interest in a nursing career due to your heroic
contributions during SARS, many mid-career jobseekers let pass the
opportunity.
6.   I left WDA for my next assignment at NTUC without making a lot of
headway. But my successors did. They kept working at it with MOH, and
with the participating hospitals, and enrolment grew. Career paths and
remuneration improved. Nanyang Polytechnic integrated its nursing
programmes for young students and mid-career individuals into one, and
also expanded its intake over the years. Ngee Ann Polytechnic jumped
into the fray. National University of Singapore got into the space and
offered an undergraduate programme which is very popular today. So there
are now expanded offerings from Nitec, diploma, to degree level training
for nurses. Nursing intakes have also grown. The Nursing Board reviewed
the entry criteria for Registered Nurses to focus less on academic
results achieved when young and upgrading from Enrolled Nurses to
Registered Nurses became common and widely aspired by ITE graduates.
7.   More importantly, the prestige of being a nurse grew and
enhanced.  A milestone was reached in 2015 when Dr Pauline Tan became
the first nurse to be appointed the CEO of a hospital – the Yishun
Community Hospital. I was on the Board of Khoo Teck Puat Hospital then,
and everyone in the Board, and I’m sure every medical worker and,
healthcare worker in the hospital was so happy and so proud of her.
Adjunct Associate Professor Selina Seah is another nurse who was
appointed as the assistant CEO of Changi General Hospital.
8.   While the nursing profession has come a long way, we are committed
to continue to develop the nursing profession.
9.   Pay is of course important. Senior Minister of State Koh Poh Koon
announced in March that nurses from public healthcare institutions and
publicly-funded community care organisations can look forward to pay
increases in the next two years.  But more importantly, we need to
develop your skills, and your careers. Let me cite a few important
initiatives.
10.   First, in January last year, we launched the Community Nursing
Competency Framework which provides a roadmap for skills development for
community nurses. Two other competency frameworks are now in the
pipeline to meet the growing needs of our ageing population – one is for
geriatric nursing, and the other, for palliative care nursing.
11.   Second important initiative, is the National Nursing Academy, or
NNA, which was launched in March 2020. It is a one stop portal to meet
the learning needs of nurses. The courses listed on the portal are
delivered by various healthcare institutions and Institutes of Higher
Learning.  To date, a total of 58 short courses are available on the
portal.
12.   But beyond a good listing of courses, the NNA encourages
collaboration amongst the healthcare institutions, to synergise their
efforts, reduce duplication, and recognise each other’s training
credentials.  As NNA also accredits the courses across healthcare
institutions, this means that skills learnt are recognised and portable
across hospitals and settings.
13.   Third initiative, we will continue to strengthen the training for
Advanced Practice Nurses (APNs).  These are nurses who have met advanced
clinical requirements, through the Master of Nursing programme and also
completion of an APN internship.
14.   This year, we will launch a new integrated APN internship or IAI
programme to facilitate an early integration of Master of Nursing
graduates to their respective areas of clinical practice. A key feature
of the IAI programme will be the Entrustable Professional Activities.
These are the tasks that an APN can be trusted to perform once
sufficient competence has been demonstrated at the workplace, through
workplace assessments. Certified competency to perform these tasks then
form the requirement towards the APN certification.
15.   Interns who are progressing well also have the option to enroll
into the National Collaborative Prescribing Programme to attain
prescribing rights. As of May this year, there are a total of 294 APNs,
amongst whom 57 have prescribing rights. By 2030, we aim to have trained
up to 700 APNs with prescribing rights.
16.   To further grow the APN pipeline, we cannot just rely on medical
colleagues for teaching and training. We have started to progressively
develop a faculty of APN Leads and Preceptors across institutions. As of
May this year, 180 APNs have been trained as preceptors to provide
clinical preceptorship and supervision to APN interns and students from
the Master of Nursing programme.
17.   In closing, amid the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, my
sincere thanks go to all nurses for playing a crucial role in the fight
against this pandemic. I believe there is renewed respect for nurses
because of the crisis our nation is going through.
18.   Many of you have been going through a lot of stress over the past
16 months, including when TTSH has been down with many nurses on
quarantine. But nurses are resilient, and you forge on as always.
19.   Vaccinations is a major prong of our strategy against COVID-19,
and nurses again, you are on the ground executing the strategy in all
our vaccination centres.  Many of you are involved in vaccination
operations, one way or another, be it in hospitals, polyclinics or
vaccination centres. You have been working hard at the frontlines and I
want to thank all of you for the vital role you play in keeping our
loved ones and Singaporeans safe. With all your hard work, we will once
again prevail over this wave of transmission.
20.   This year, we have a total of 125 award recipients, our biggest
cohort to date. All the recipients have consistently shown outstanding
performance and contribution to the nursing profession, some with more
than twenty years of experience.
21.   Once again, my warmest congratulations to our 2021 Nurses’ Merit
Award recipients. Thank you for your selfless contributions to our
healthcare system. I wish all of you a Happy Nurses Day!


