Reply to Media Queries On the Number of Imported Cases Who Were Short
Term Visitors



REPLY TO MEDIA QUERIES ON THE NUMBER OF IMPORTED CASES WHO WERE SHORT TERM VISITORS


Published Date: 15 May 2021

In response to media queries on the number of imported cases who were
short term visitors, MOH would like to clarify the following.
The B.1.617 variant prevalent in South Asia is not just a Singapore
problem. The WHO has deemed it a variant of global concern.
According to the Gisaid Institute, Europe has sequenced almost 2,000
B.1.617 infections, US 486, Australia 85, Japan 29 and China 17.
This is a major reason why transmission is rising throughout Asia -- in
Malaysia, Thailand, Japan. Even hitherto safe regions, such as
Singapore, Taiwan and Vietnam, are experiencing outbreaks of community
cases.
These cases all originated from imports because all borders are porous.
All it takes is one case to cause an outbreak, and no country can seal
itself off totally. At the minimum, citizens and residents must be
allowed to return home.
For imported cases in Singapore, we reported 409 cases over 28 days from
16 Apr to 13 May. 41.6% of them were SC/PRs, 50.6% were Work pass
holders, student pass holders or dependents, and 7.8% were short term
visitors. All short term visitors are allowed to enter only if they have
family ties here, or on specific compassionate grounds such as to attend
a funeral, or seek medical treatment.
If we just look at South Asia, the number of imported cases over the
past 28 days was 271, comprising 50.2% SCs/PRs, 46.5% work pass holders,
student pass holders or dependents and 3.3% short term visitors.
Every arrival is subject to stringent SHN and tests. Community
transmission occurred nevertheless because the virus breached our safe
measures, including at Changi Airport.
The infiltrating virus can be from SC/PR/work pass holders or a short
term visitor. This is a challenge faced by all countries because no one
can entirely close their borders.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 MAY 2021
