Expansion of Vaccination Programme; Further Easing of Community Measures



EXPANSION OF VACCINATION PROGRAMME; FURTHER EASING OF COMMUNITY MEASURES


Published Date: 24 Mar 2021

         It has been three months since we transited to Phase Three.
With everyone’s efforts and cooperation, we have kept COVID-19 under
control with local community cases remaining low at around two per week
in the past month. While community transmission remains low, the risk of
spread remains as the world continues to battle the virus. Vaccination
is a key enabler to reducing this risk, together with other enablers
such as safe management measures, testing and contact tracing. Singapore
will be expanding our vaccination programme, and as we vaccinate more of
our population, we will allow more economic and community activities to
resume.
GOOD PROGRESS AND EXPANSION OF VACCINATION PROGRAMME
2.      Our vaccination programme has progressed steadily thus far. As
of 23 March 2021, around 1,109,000 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been
administered. More than 799,000 individuals have received at least one
dose of the vaccine. Amongst them, around 310,000 individuals have
received their second doses and completed the full vaccination regimen.
3.     In particular, we have made good progress since 22 February in
vaccinating our seniors, starting first with those aged 70 years and
above. With more regular deliveries of vaccine supplies, we had brought
forward the vaccination of seniors aged 60 to 69 years-old by two weeks
to mid-March 2021. More than 55% of our seniors have received their
vaccination or made appointments to do so. We encourage seniors who have
not yet done so to come forward to register for their vaccination as
soon as possible. Seniors can also book their appointments for
vaccination at any of the People’s Association’s community clubs and
centres island-wide.
4.     We will now roll out the vaccination programme to younger age
groups. As they are more familiar with the use of digital technology, we
will no longer be sending personalised letters of invitation to them.
Instead we will adopt a two-step process. First, all who are eligible
can register directly at the vaccine.gov.sg website. Second, the
registrants will receive an SMS with a personalised URL enabling them to
book their vaccination appointments online.[1]
5.     We will start with persons aged 45 to 59 years old. With
immediate effect, everyone in this age group can register their interest
for the vaccination at vaccine.gov.sg. We will send out the SMSes to the
registrants as soon as there are vacant slots available for booking.
This should happen within a few days of registration, but we seek
everyone’s understanding that the timing may vary and it may take longer
in particular if there is a delay in the vaccine delivery schedule.
6.     We encourage everyone in this age group who is medically
eligible to take up this offer, so that we can protect ourselves and
fellow Singaporeans from COVID-19. Please also encourage your family
members and friends to go for their vaccination when they are offered
the chance to book their slots.
REMAINING VIGILANT AS MORE EMPLOYEES RETURN TO WORKPLACE
7.     The tripartite partners[2] have reviewed the safe management
measures at our workplaces to allow greater flexibility for businesses
and employees, while limiting the risks of COVID-19 transmission. The
following updated requirements will take effect from 5 April 2021.
More employees may return to the workplace
8.     We will shift from working-from-home as a default to a more
flexible and hybrid way of working. Employers are encouraged to continue
with work-from-home arrangements, but more employees will be allowed to
return to the workplace to better support work and business operations.
In particular up to 75% of the employees (who are presently able to work
from home) can now be at the workplace at any one time, up from the
current 50%. The current cap on the time an employee spends at the
workplace will also be lifted.
9.      Employers should continue to stagger start times and implement
flexible working hours where possible. These measures help to lower
transmission risks by reducing interactions at the workplace and
reducing crowding at common spaces at or near the workplace and in
public places, including public transport. Split team arrangements are
no longer mandatory, although companies may continue to adopt such
arrangements for business continuity purposes if they so choose.
Restrictions against cross-deployment across workplaces remain in place
Limit social gatherings to 8 persons
10.     Social and recreational gatherings, such as team bonding events
organised by the employer, will be allowed but must be limited to a
total size of no more than 8 persons.
Remaining vigilant to keep workplaces safe
11.     The tripartite partners urge companies to remain vigilant as
more employees return to the workplace. Employers must continue to
implement the prevailing safe management measures such as regular
cleaning of common spaces, demarcating safe physical distancing and mask
wearing at all times. In organising work-related events, companies are
reminded to adhere to the necessary safe distancing and capacity limits
to keep employees and stakeholders safe. Due to the higher risk of
transmission when people are unmasked, meals should not be the main
feature of the event, and companies should avoid holding events over
mealtimes as far as possible.  Enforcement actions will be taken against
employers who fail to comply with the safe management measures, and that
will include the possibility of workplace closures. Employers also have
to be prepared that the situation is a dynamic one. If there is
increased risk of COVID-19 resurgence, we will have to adjust our
posture and more stringent measures at workplaces will have to be
re-introduced.
SCALING UP OF ACTIVITIES WITH PRE-EVENT TESTING
12.     Since October 2020, to enable more activities to resume in a
safe manner, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has been piloting the use of
pre-event testing to reduce the risk of undetected COVID-19 cases being
involved in an event. Pre-event testing requires participants of an
event or activity to be tested before attending the event and no more
than 24 hours before the end of their participation at the event, either
at the event venue or at a dedicated testing facility or clinic. Only
participants who have a valid negative COVID-19 test result will be
allowed to participate in the event. This helps to prevent individuals
infected with COVID-19 from transmitting it to other people at the
event. We have since conducted pilots of such pre-event testing at
selected events across different settings such as business-to-business
events, wedding receptions, and live performances. These experiences
have helped MOH and the private sector providers to assess the
feasibility and operational workflows for implementing pre-event testing
in these settings.
13.     From 24 April 2021, the following selected activities will be
allowed to scale up further if they implement pre-event testing for
their attendees. The respective safe management measures for each
activity or sector[3], as well as the safe capacities for each venue,
continue to apply (see summary in ANNEX):

a. Marriage solemnisations. To facilitate more people coming together
to celebrate this key life event, the limit for marriage
solemnisations[4] will be increased from 100 to 250 attendees in total
(including the wedding couple, excluding the Licensed Solemniser and
vendors) for the entire event, in zones of up to 50 attendees each. For
solemnisation-only events involving more than 100 attendees, pre-event
testing will be required for the wedding couple. If there are 100 or
fewer attendees, pre-event testing will not be required.

b. Wedding receptions. Similarly, the limit for wedding
receptions[5] will be increased from 100 attendees to 250 attendees in
total (including the wedding couple, excluding vendors) for the entire
event, in zones or timeslots of up to 50 attendees each. Due to the
higher risk of receptions where people are unmasked while enjoying their
meals and come into close and prolonged contact with one another in
celebration, pre-event testing for all attendees (including the wedding
couple) will be required for wedding receptions involving more than 100
attendees.
c. Live performances. Live performances at designated venues will be
allowed to have up to 750 attendees if they implement pre-event testing,
or to have up to 250 attendees if they do not implement pre-event
testing. The National Arts Council will release updated guidelines on
audience management at live performances subsequently.
d. Pilot business-to-business events [6]. Currently,
business-to-business events being piloted and approved by Singapore
Tourism Board (STB) may have up to 250 attendees, in zones of no more
than 50 attendees each. If pre-event testing is implemented, these
events will be allowed to have up to 750 attendees, in zones of no more
than 50 attendees each. STB will release the updated Safe Business
Events framework and application details subsequently.
e. Pilot spectator sports events (seated). Currently, sport events
being piloted and approved by SportSG have been allowed to take
place. Under this pilot, sport events will be allowed to have up to 750
spectators if they implement pre-event testing, or to have up to 250
spectators without testing. SportSG will release further details on the
pilot subsequently.



14.     In addition to the above, from 24 April 2021, to allow more
people to bid farewell to loved ones, we will increase the cap for wakes
and funerals on the day of the burial/cremation only, from 30 to 50
persons at any one time. The cap for other days of the wake remains at
30 attendees at any one time. Because pre-event testing is NOT required
and there could be a large number of persons visiting over the course of
the wake and funeral to pay their last respects, attendees are reminded
to maintain safe distancing and keep masks on at all times to reduce the
risk of spread.
15.     From 24 April 2021, individuals who have completed the full
vaccination regimen and have had time to develop sufficient protection
(i.e. two weeks after the second dose of the Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19
vaccination) can gain entry to events that implement pre-event testing
without the need to undergo pre-event testing. MOH will be releasing
further information and tools to support the implementation of pre-event
testing, which will be made available at https://go.gov.sg/pet when
ready.
REMAINING VIGILANT AND KEEPING SAFE AS MORE ACTIVITIES RESUME
16.     Even as we resume and scale up more activities, we must remain
vigilant and not get complacent, so as to keep community transmission
under control. Each of us should observe all the safe management
measures, see a doctor and get tested when sick, and be vaccinated when
it is offered to us. Even after we are vaccinated, we should continue to
observe all safe management measures and practise good hygiene so as to
protect those who are unvaccinated. As a larger proportion of our
population becomes vaccinated, we can look forward to further reopening
and gradually emerging stronger from this crisis together.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 MARCH 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The link that is provided in the official SMS will refer to
“vaccine.gov.sg”. Do not trust any other URLs that are not from
a gov.sg domain. The COVID-19 vaccination is free for all Singaporeans
and long-term residents in Singapore and no one should ask you for
payment to register for appointment. From receipt of the SMS,
individuals will be given 14 days to schedule an appointment.

[2] The tripartite partners comprise Ministry of Manpower (MOM),
National Trades Union Congress (NTUC) and Singapore National Employers
Federation (SNEF).

[3] Please refer to https://covid.gobusiness.gov.sg/permittedlist/ for
details of the sector-specific safe management measures.

[4] Excluding solemnisations at home and the Registry of Civil and
Muslim Marriages (ROM/M) Building, as these venues tend to be smaller.

[5] Not allowed to take place at home and the Registry of Civil and
Muslim Marriages (ROM/M) Building. Allowed to take place at external
venues such as hotels, restaurants, function rooms, community centres/
clubs, and HDB common areas.

[6] Business-to-business events such as meetings, conferences and
exhibitions.
