Giving Maximum Protection to Individuals Through Vaccination



GIVING MAXIMUM PROTECTION TO INDIVIDUALS THROUGH VACCINATION


Published Date: 04 Jun 2021

1. Singapore’s vaccination efforts continue to make good progress. A
total of about 4.2 million doses have been administered, and almost 2.4
million people here have received at least one dose of the COVID-19
vaccine. The exercise for students has got off to an encouraging start.
2. On 31 May 2021, the press release for Multi-Ministry Taskforce
announced that:
a) The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) is reviewing the
restriction on persons with a history of anaphylaxis taking the
Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, with a view to relax it; and
b) The Ministry of Health (MOH) will open up access to other COVID-19
vaccines under the Special Access Route (SAR) in order to enhance
overall vaccination coverage.
This media release provides an update to the two issues.
REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS ON PERSONS WITH ANAPHYLAXIS
3. Our primary consideration is to protect all Singaporeans, by ensuring
that our population has access to vaccines that meet strict standards of
safety, quality and effectiveness.
4. Currently, there are about 32,000 individuals who are not able to
take the mRNA vaccines due to severe allergies. The EC19V has been
reviewing local and international safety data on vaccinating people with
a history of anaphylaxis due to food and other medicines, with a view to
allowing this group to receive the mRNA vaccines safely.
5. After careful study of the data both globally and locally, the EC19V
has recommended that persons with a history of anaphylaxis or allergic
reactions to other drugs, food, insect stings, or unknown trigger
(idiopathic) can be vaccinated with the mRNA vaccines. Persons with a
history of anaphylaxis or allergic reactions to other vaccines can be
referred to an allergist for further evaluation fully subsidised by the
government and may be vaccinated, if deemed suitable. MOH accepts the
EC19V recommendation and will remove this restriction from 5 June 2021.
ALTERNATE VACCINES
6. With this change, we expect a large majority of the 32,000
individuals will now be able to take the mRNA vaccines under our
national vaccination programme. A minority will still not be eligible,
if they have a history of anaphylaxis or allergic reactions to other
vaccines.
7. There are also approximately 2,000 individuals who had developed
anaphylaxis or allergic reactions (hives, face/ eyelid/ lip/ throat
swelling, generalised rash within 7 days after vaccination) due to the
first dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine. This group should not receive an
mRNA-based vaccine again.
8. To protect them against COVID-19, we are also evaluating and will
bring in non-mRNA vaccines that are more suitable for them. We expect to
do this before the end of this year after the vaccines are authorised by
the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) for use in our national vaccination
programme. We will provide more details later when these vaccines are
available.
SPECIAL ACCESS ROUTE
9. However, if this group of individuals are not able to wait for the
alternate non-mRNA vaccines, they can consider taking a vaccine under
the SAR, which MOH has recently announced that it will open for COVID-19
vaccines.
10. Under the SAR, COVID-19 vaccines approved by the World Health
Organization (WHO) for its Emergency Use List (EUL), can be imported and
supplied by private healthcare providers as unregistered vaccines, to be
administered to individuals in Singapore.
11. On 1 June, the WHO approved the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine for its
EUL¹. This means that the WHO EUL now comprises the following COVID-19
vaccines: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Astra-Zeneca, Johnson&Johnson,
Sinopharm and Sinovac-CoronaVac. More than ten other vaccines are still
being evaluated by WHO.
12. As MOH has Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine in stock, MOH will be inviting
private healthcare institutions licensed under the Private Hospitals and
Medical Clinics Act (PHMCA) to apply to be licensed providers for the
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine under the SAR, and draw on our existing stock
of 200,000 doses. We will select around 20 private clinics around the
island, who can demonstrate the ability to administer the vaccines
safely, properly and efficiently. The clinics can provide the vaccine to
all Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and persons holding
Long-Term Visit Passes, who for one reason or other wish to receive
Sinovac-CoronaVac instead of a vaccine which is available on the
national programme.
13. The vaccines from our current stock will be released for free to
successful providers. Providers will be allowed to charge patients
receiving the vaccine a fee to cover their costs. For the 34,000
individuals who were previously rejected from taking the mRNA vaccines
or who were allergic to the mRNA vaccine, the government will reimburse
them this fee if they decide to receive Sinovac-CoronaVac. Details will
be made known to these individuals in the coming week.
14. This is ultimately a private arrangement, though facilitated by the
government. MOH will draw up guidelines on proper counselling, informed
consent and safe management of patients. However, as the vaccine remains
unregistered, it cannot be covered by the Vaccine Injury Financial
Assistance Programme (VIFAP). Individuals who wish to receive
vaccination under SAR should discuss with their doctor in these
appointed providers the risks and benefits of using these vaccines, and
jointly make an informed decision.
15. Private healthcare institutions who are keen to apply to the
licensed providers for our existing stock of 200,000 doses can apply at
https://go.gov.sg/zue5s4 from today onwards. The application will close
by 11 June 2021, 1200 hours.
VACCINES APPROVAL
16. Some members of the public have suggested that HSA should simply
approve the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine to be part of our national
vaccination programme, now that WHO has included it in its EUL.
17. We would like to clarify that the WHO EUL pathway focusses on the
needs of low- and middle-income countries with limited access to
COVID-19 vaccines. It is a risk-based process that expedites the
assessment of vaccines for use in a pandemic especially in these
countries, where the benefits are deemed to outweigh the risks, despite
uncertainties about the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Healthcare
regulators in many developed jurisdictions, including Singapore,
typically conduct further rigorous evaluations beyond WHO EUL approval
before approving a vaccine for general use.
18. We wish to reiterate that HSA evaluates all applications, regardless
of their country of origin, based on the same standards and
requirements. Currently HSA is still awaiting outstanding data on
Sinovac-CoronaVac from Sinovac for it to complete its independent and
thorough evaluation of the quality, safety and efficacy of the vaccine
for inclusion in our national vaccination programme.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
4 JUNE 2021

[1] For Sinovac-CoronaVac, WHO said in its statement, “Vaccine efficacy
results showed that the vaccine prevented symptomatic disease in 51% of
those vaccinated and prevented severe COVID-19 and hospitalisation in
100% of the studied population.” WHO also revealed that few older adults
(over 60 years old) were enrolled in these clinical trials and that the
studies also do not cover those with comorbidities. Nevertheless, WHO
does not restrict the use of the vaccine to these groups as “there is no
reason to believe that the vaccine has a different safety profile in
older and younger population.”

