Appointment of New Chairmen for Singapore Health Services and National
Healthcare Group



APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHAIRMEN FOR SINGAPORE HEALTH SERVICES AND NATIONAL HEALTHCARE GROUP


Published Date: 25 Jun 2021

       The Minister for Health has appointed Mr Cheng Wai Keung as the
Chairman of the Board of Singapore Health Services (SingHealth) from 1
July 2021 to 30 June 2024, and Mr Tan Tee How as the Chairman of the
Board of National Healthcare Group (NHG) from 15 April 2021 to 14 April
2024.



NEW CHAIRMAN, MR CHENG WAI KEUNG, SINGHEALTH

2.    Mr Cheng Wai Keung is the Chairman and Managing Director of Wing
Tai Holdings Ltd and has been a member of the SingHealth Board since 1
August 2013. Mr Cheng is an accomplished business leader with vast
experience across various sectors. He also serves on various private and
public sector Boards including as Deputy Chairman of Temasek Holdings
(Pte) Ltd and the Vice-Chairman of the Singapore-Suzhou Township
Development Pte Ltd, amongst others.
3.        As Chairman of SingHealth, Mr Cheng will helm the cluster’s
drive to enhance clinical outcomes through research, innovation and
education and to provide value-driven care to patients. He will lead
SingHealth in its continued focus on providing a continuum of care that
is holistic and integrated, while advancing new models of care that are
patient-centric, with an emphasis on population health. He will play a
pivotal role in leading SingHealth through key infrastructure projects
such as the redevelopment of the SGH Campus, and the new Eastern General
and Community Hospitals, to ensure their timely completion. With his
wealth of expertise in business and management, SingHealth is set to
deepen strategic partnerships and collaborations to advance key priority
areas, anchored by a robust corporate governance framework.
NEW CHAIRMAN, MR TAN TEE HOW, NHG
4.     Mr Tan Tee How has been Deputy Chairman of the NHG Board since 1
April 2019, and was NHG’s founding Group Chief Executive Officer from
2000 to 2003. With 34 years in the Singapore Administrative Service, Mr
Tan will be bringing his extensive expertise in leading public entities
to NHG, having held several key appointments during his career,
including the Commissioner of Inland Revenue and CEO of the Inland
Revenue Authority of Singapore, Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of
National Development, and Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Home
Affairs.
5.      As Chairman of NHG, Mr Tan will be advancing NHG’s population
health efforts for over two million residents in the central region and
scaling up NHG’s integrated ecosystem of care. He will accelerate
transformational collaborations with local and global partners to
achieve NHG’s vision of _“Adding Years of Healthy Life”_. Furthermore,
he will drive the Institute of Mental Health’s rollout of mental health
initiatives to increase capabilities and capacities in psychological and
social cohesion, and resilience in Singapore. Mr Tan will also encourage
translational growth in innovation, research and education with the Lee
Kong Chian School of Medicine with NHG as its primary clinical training
partner. In addition, Mr Tan will lead NHG through its critical role in
partnering the Ministry of Health to strengthen Singapore’s pandemic
preparedness and resilience, with the National Centre for Infectious
Diseases (NCID) at the forefront of our COVID-19 response.

OUTGOING CHAIRMEN
6.        MOH wishes to express its appreciation to Mr Peter Seah Lim
Huat and Mdm Kay Kuok Oon Kwong who led SingHealth and NHG,
respectively, with distinction between 2009 and 2021. Both of them
oversaw major transformations in their clusters, including the public
healthcare reorganisation exercise in 2017 and the development of their
respective Regional Health Systems to integrate care with the primary
and community care partners in their respective regions.
7.    During his time as Chairman of SingHealth, Mr Seah was
instrumental in overseeing SingHealth’s development as an Academic
Medical Centre. Mr Seah oversaw the opening of SingHealth’s Academia, a
purpose-built facility that catalyses research and education. He also
led SingHealth in fostering a close partnership with Duke-NUS Medical
School to nurture a rich eco-system that harnesses synergies in clinical
care, research and education. To date, 15 SingHealth-Duke NUS Academic
Clinical Programmes, 13 SingHealth Duke-NUS Disease Centres and academic
institutes such as the Academic Medicine Education Institute, the
Academic Medicine Research Institute and the Academic Medicine
Innovation Institute, have been established.
8.      In addition, Mr Seah also led the cluster through a major
expansion, including the transfer of Bright Vision Hospital and Changi
General Hospital to SingHealth, and the opening of the Sengkang General
and Community Hospitals, Outram Community Hospital, Punggol Polyclinic,
and the new National Heart Centre Singapore.
9.       During her tenure, Mdm Kuok played an integral role in NHG’s
Care Transformation journey towards population health through its _River
of Life_ framework. She oversaw NHG’s efforts in strengthening its
primary care and mental health infrastructure and capabilities,
including the initiation of the National Mental Health Blueprint in
2006. Under her stewardship, NHG implemented numerous successful care
innovations, including the development of three Family Medicine Clinics,
NHG Polyclinics’ patient empanelment and the Teamlet care model,
tele-health initiatives for chronic disease management, as well as
mental health programmes in the community.
10.      Mdm Kuok also oversaw the expansion of institutions managed by
NHG, including Khoo Teck Puat Hospital and Yishun Community Hospital
following the amalgamation of the former Alexandra Health System with
NHG, as well as new developments such as HealthCity Novena, NCID, the Ng
Teng Fong Centre for Healthcare Innovation, Woodlands Health Campus, and
the new National Skin Centre Campus.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
25 JUNE 2021




