Suspension of Meetup @ 352 (kin Hoi)’s Food Business Operations At 6
Holland Close, #01-36; and Prohibition of Kemono Pte Ltd At 171 Selegie
Road From Preparing and Serving Menu Items to Kin Hoi



SUSPENSION OF MEETUP @ 352 (KIN HOI)’S FOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS AT 6 HOLLAND CLOSE, #01-36; AND PROHIBITION OF KEMONO PTE LTD AT 171 SELEGIE ROAD FROM PREPARING AND SERVING MENU ITEMS TO KIN HOI


Published Date: 21 Apr 2021

          The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Food Agency
(SFA) are investigating an incident of gastroenteritis affecting a total
of 15 people, who were reported to have gastroenteritis symptoms after
consuming food prepared by Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi), located at 6 Holland
Close, #01-36, between 28 March and 15 April 2021. MOH and SFA were
notified of the most recent incident on 19 April 2021. One of the cases
was hospitalised and has since been discharged.

2  In view of the suspected ongoing transmission, SFA has
issued a direction to suspend Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi)’s food business
operations with effect from 20 April 2021 until further notice.

3  SFA has also prohibited Kemono Pte Ltd, located at 171
Selegie Road, from preparing and serving all menu items, including
online orders, to Kin Hoi. Kemono Pte Ltd is a business partner of Kin
Hoi and provides food preparation and cooking services for Kin Hoi’s
online delivery orders, in a separate facility from their own food
business.

4              All food handlers working in Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) are
required to re-attend and pass the Food Safety Course Level 1, before
they can resume work as food handlers. Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) is also
required to clean and sanitise the premises, including equipment and
utensils.

5  Kemono Pte Ltd is required to disinfect food preparation
surfaces and floors, and ensure good hygiene maintenance of wash basins.

6  Food safety is a joint responsibility. SFA would like to
remind food operators to observe good food and personal hygiene
practices at all times. SFA will not hesitate to take firm action
against anyone found to be in violation of the Environmental Public
Health Act. In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
21 APRIL 2021
