Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination: Updated Recommendation On Use
of Covid-19 Vaccines



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION: UPDATED RECOMMENDATION ON USE OF COVID-19 VACCINES


Published Date: 23 Oct 2021

1.      The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination notes the interim
authorisation of the Sinovac-CoronaVac COVID-19 vaccine by the Health
Sciences Authority (HSA) under the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR),
for use in Singapore in individuals aged 18 years and above to prevent
COVID-19.
2.      The Expert Committee has independently reviewed the
Sinovac-CoronaVac (COVID-19) vaccine’s safety and efficacy data for
different population segments in Singapore and has been briefed by HSA
on its full range of considerations in granting interim authorisation.
3.      The safety profile of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine was observed
to be consistent with other registered vaccines against other diseases.
4.      In its key Phase III clinical trial study in Brazil, two doses
of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine demonstrated a vaccine efficacy of 51%
against symptomatic infection by earlier SAR-CoV-2 strains prior to the
Delta variant, with a higher rate of protection against severe disease.
However, varying effectiveness was observed in a range of different
studies. There is also no comprehensive data on its protection against
the Delta variant. Furthermore, antibody levels after vaccination were
low and declined rapidly within three to six months after completion the
2nd dose returning to pre-vaccination levels by six months.
5.      While Sinovac did not apply to HSA for PSAR authorisation of a
3-dose regimen for its Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine, there is evidence that
a third dose of the vaccine is needed at three to six months after the
second dose to raise antibody levels. This is consistent with the World
Health Organisation Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE)
recommendation of a third dose for those aged 60 and above for the
primary vaccination series.
6.      The Expert Committee also notes that as at 23 October 2021, more
than 84% of our total population has received at least one dose of the
PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines which have been the mainstay of our
National Vaccination Programme.
7.      In view of the lower efficacy of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine
as compared to the PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines and the lack of data on
the efficacy of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine against the Delta variant,
the Expert Committee recommends that persons who are unable to complete
the full two-dose regime of the PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines, due to
valid medical reasons, should receive the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine.
This includes those who have taken their first dose of one of the
PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines and developed myocarditis or allergies to
the mRNA vaccines, as well as those who have a past history of allergy
to a component in the mRNA vaccines.
8.      The PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines remain the recommended
COVID-19 vaccines for all persons who are eligible, given the higher
vaccine effectiveness against infection and severe disease, including
against the Delta variant. Taking the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine will
allow those who are medically unable to complete their primary
vaccination using mRNA vaccines, to be protected against COVID-19, and
to be considered fully vaccinated.
9.      Given the circumstances aforementioned, persons of all ages who
are eligible to receive the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine are recommended to
receive three doses of the vaccine as their primary vaccination series.
The second dose should be taken 28 days after the first dose, while the
third dose should be taken 90 days after the second dose. The
recommended timing of the third dose corresponds to when antibody levels
are known to have declined. Persons who have received two doses of the
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine but are able to receive the PSAR mRNA
vaccines, are strongly recommended to take one of the mRNA vaccines for
the third dose of their primary vaccination series. Please refer to the
Annex for further details on the recommended use of the vaccine under
different circumstances.
10.     The Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine is not recommended for use as a
booster vaccination, except in persons who are unable – for medical
reasons – to receive a third dose of the mRNA vaccine. Persons who have
completed two doses of the mRNA vaccine without allergies or severe
adverse events, are recommended to receive an mRNA vaccine instead of
the Sinovac-Coronavac vaccine, if they are eligible for a booster.
11.     There has been similar evidence that antibody levels from the
Sinopharm BIBP vaccine also decline after two doses, and a third dose
increases this substantially. The Expert Committee notes that some
individuals have opted for Sinopharm BIBP under the Special Access Route
(SAR) as their primary series vaccination despite the PSAR mRNA vaccines
being strongly recommended for them. They are strongly recommended to
take one of the PSAR mRNA vaccines for the third dose of their primary
series vaccination. If they decline, a third dose of the Sinopharm BIBP
vaccine, is recommended, to be given at three months after the second
dose to complete their primary vaccination series.
12.     Separately, local and international safety data now indicate
more clearly that persons with severe allergies to non-COVID-19 vaccines
can be safely vaccinated with mRNA vaccines. These persons were
previously required to undergo a review by a specialist before
vaccination. Given the greater assurance of safety that we now have,
based on global and local data, persons with severe allergies to other
non-COVID-19 vaccines can now receive the mRNA vaccine without being
reviewed by a specialist. Persons with documented allergy to PEG, which
is a component of mRNA vaccines, continue to be ineligible for the mRNA
vaccines.
13.     The Expert Committee will continue to monitor and review the use
of COVID-19 vaccines in Singapore as more data becomes available over
time, and update our recommendations as necessary. A high local
vaccination coverage is key to protect ourselves from COVID-19, and we
encourage all medically eligible persons to be vaccinated.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
23 OCTOBER 2021


