Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Botswana, Eswatini,
Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, and Zimbabwe



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM BOTSWANA, ESWATINI, LESOTHO, MOZAMBIQUE, NAMIBIA, SOUTH AFRICA, AND ZIMBABWE


Published Date: 26 Nov 2021

         The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation and will be tightening border measures given
the deteriorating situation in Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique,
Namibia, South Africa, and Zimbabwe.



RESTRICTING TRAVEL FROM BOTSWANA, ESWATINI, LESOTHO, MOZAMBIQUE,
NAMIBIA, SOUTH AFRICA, AND ZIMBABWE



2.  BOTSWANA, ESWATINI, LESOTHO, MOZAMBIQUE, NAMIBIA, AND
ZIMBABWE are currently Category IV countries and arriving travellers
with recent travel history to these countries are currently required to
serve a 10-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities. SOUTH
AFRICA is currently a Category II country and arriving travellers from
South Africa are subjected to a 7-day SHN at their declared place of
accommodation.



3.  There have been recent reports of a potentially more
contagious variant of the COVID-19 virus, the B.1.1.529 which may be
circulating in Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South
Africa, and Zimbabwe. Scientists around the world are still finding out
more about the new variant of virus, such as whether it is more
transmissible than the Delta variant, whether it is more likely to lead
to severe illnesses, and efficacy of existing vaccines against this new
variant. Singapore currently has no cases of this variant.



4.  In the meantime, we should take the necessary precautions
to reduce the risks of spread of B.1.1.529 to Singapore.  We are
therefore putting in place new restrictions for travellers from
Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, and
Zimbabwe. From 27 NOVEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS:



a.  All long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with recent
travel history to Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia,
South Africa, and Zimbabwe within the last 14 days will not be allowed
entry into Singapore, or transit through Singapore. This restriction
will apply to those who have obtained prior approval for entry into
Singapore.



b.  Returning Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents will be
subjected to a 10-day SHN at dedicated SDF.



c.  South Africa will be placed in Category IV¹.



5.  These additional border restrictions will apply for four
weeks in the first instance, after which we will review and extend the
restrictions if necessary.



6.  As mentioned, while the variant has been suggested to be
more transmissible, there is currently insufficient evidence to
determine if this variant is associated with any change in disease
severity, antibody response or vaccine efficacy. These aspects are being
investigated. The Ministry of Health will evaluate the data as it
emerges and review our border measures accordingly.



7.  The updated country/region classification and its
corresponding border measure may be found in Annex A. The full list of
Safe Travel Lanes for travel to Singapore and prevailing border measures
under each lane for different categories and changes to border measures
will be updated on the SafeTravel website. Not all lanes may utilise the
Category I/II/III/IV health measure framework. Travellers are advised to
visit the website to check the latest border measures for their
country/region which will apply upon entry into Singapore



REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES



8.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to
adjust our border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a
COVID resilient nation. Any changes to border measures will be updated
on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website
to check the latest border measures for the associated country or region
before entering Singapore; and be prepared to be subjected to the
prevailing border measures upon entry.



9.  All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their
travel history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false
declarations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 NOVEMBER 2021

[1] Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Mozambique, Namibia, and Zimbabwe are
currently in Category IV

