Adjusting Our Approach to Manage the Omicron Variant



ADJUSTING OUR APPROACH TO MANAGE THE OMICRON VARIANT


Published Date: 26 Dec 2021

     It has been one month since the emergence of the COVID-19 Omicron
variant. Given the uncertainty around Omicron’s characteristics, we had
initially adopted a more cautious risk containment approach and
introduced targeted measures to reduce the risk of spread of Omicron
into and within Singapore. This strategy was effective in delaying the
introduction of the variant into our community and slowing local spread.
It bought us valuable time to learn about its nature and behaviour based
on overseas and local data.
2.  International evidence indicates that the Omicron variant is likely
to be more transmissible but less severe than the Delta variant, and
that vaccines, especially boosters, retain substantial protection
against hospitalisations caused by Omicron. In the last week, we had
several unlinked Omicron cases as well as clusters in the community.
This was not unexpected given the high transmissibility of the variant.

3.  Based on our updated understanding of the Omicron variant, we will
adjust our approach to managing Omicron cases. From 27 DECEMBER 2021, we
will allow Omicron cases to follow Protocols 1-2-3 as with other
COVID-19 cases. Omicron cases will be placed on the Home Recovery
Programme or managed at community care facilities depending on their
clinical presentation, instead of being isolated in dedicated facilities
by default. Close contacts of Omicron cases will be placed on Protocol 3
where they will be issued a 7-day Health Risk Warning instead of being
quarantined for 10 days. Those currently in quarantine will be
progressively discharged over the next few days.
4.  To bolster our protection against a large wave of cases locally and
to keep our workplaces safe, FROM 15 JANUARY 2021, we will remove the
pre-event testing (PET) concession for unvaccinated persons to go to
work under the Workforce Vaccination Measures. We will also open
applications for a second round of free antigen rapid test (ART) kit
distribution for workplaces not on mandatory rostered routine testing
(RRT) to implement voluntary weekly testing for two months. This will
facilitate early identification of cases and reduce workplace
transmission as more return to their workplaces. From 1 FEBRUARY
2022, we will also make vaccination a condition for the approval of new
applications for and renewal of existing long-term passes, work passes,
as well as permanent residences.
5.   Lastly, with the increasing global spread of Omicron, the travel
restrictions we had instituted earlier will need to be updated. In
particular we will end the travel restrictions on BOSTWANA, ESWATINI,
GHANA, LESOTHO, MALAWI, MOZAMBIQUE, NAMIBIA, NIGERIA, SOUTH AFRICA, AND
ZIMBABWE FROM 26 DECEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS. All passengers with 14-day
travel history to the countries listed above will be allowed to enter
and transit through Singapore and will be subjected to border measures
for Category IV countries/regions.
UPDATES ON DETECTED OMICRON CASES AND ASSESSMENT OF OMICRON VARIANT
6.  As of 25 December 2021, we have detected 546 confirmed Omicron
cases comprising 443 imported cases and 103 local cases. In the last
week, we have had 13 unlinked community Omicron cases and 78 Omicron
cases from local linked community transmission.
7.  The Omicron variant has now been detected in over 110 countries,
mainly in Africa and Europe. Current observations from affected
countries/regions suggest that the Omicron variant is more transmissible
than currently circulating variants. Globally, the Omicron variant has
overtaken the Delta variant as the predominant variant in numerous
countries, such as the United Kingdom and Denmark.
8.  Available data thus far suggests that Omicron infections face
reduced risks of hospitalisation and severe disease compared to Delta
infections_. _Locally, our Omicron cases have so far not been severe as
well – none has required intensive care or oxygen supplementation,
although this may be partially due to most cases being fully vaccinated
and from younger age groups. Preliminary estimates from overseas studies
also indicate that two doses of mRNA vaccines reduce the risk of
symptomatic infection from Omicron by about 35%. The risk is further
reduced to about 75% lower for individuals with a primary and booster
mRNA regimen. These statistics refer to protection against symptomatic
infection. There should be better protection against severe infection
and death due to cellular immunity and other factors. It is therefore
important for us to press on with our booster vaccination programme
to enhance protection against infection and severe disease.
ADJUSTING OUR APPROACH FOR MANAGING LOCAL OMICRON CASES
9.  Based on our updated understanding and international experience
with the Omicron variant, we expect more cases of Omicron infections
than for Delta but proportionately fewer severe cases or deaths, due to
the lower severity of the Omicron variant and protection from
vaccinations and boosters.
10.  We will therefore shift our approach for managing Omicron cases to
the prevailing Protocols 1-2-3 from 27 DECEMBER 2021. Omicron cases will
no longer need to be isolated in dedicated facilities by default. As per
Protocol 1, unwell cases will be processed based on both their clinical
presentation and underlying risk factors and either be placed under the
Home Recovery Programme or managed at COVID-19 treatment facilities
or hospitals. They would follow a time-based discharge of 10 days (for
vaccinated persons or children less than 12 years old) or 14 days
(unvaccinated persons). Persons who are well but test positive will
continue to self-test and self-manage under Protocol 2, including using
ART tests to discharge from the third day onwards.
11.  Close contacts of Omicron cases will be placed on Protocol 3
instead of being quarantined at dedicated facilities for 10 days. They
will be issued a 7-day Health Risk Warning and be required to self-test
with ART daily before leaving their homes. Contact tracing efforts would
shift back towards self-reporting by family members and leveraging
digital tools such as TraceTogether, and tight ringfencing of vulnerable
settings such as hospitals, nursing homes, MSF elderly homes and
preschools.
12.  The adjustments in our approach for managing local Omicron cases
will allow us to focus our healthcare resources on severe cases and
protecting the vulnerable settings. It also allows us to go back to
having a single streamlined approach to manage COVID-19, regardless of
COVID-19 viral strains, which will facilitate operations on the ground
and compliance to the protocols.
REMOVAL OF PET CONCESSION UNDER THE WORKFORCE VACCINATION MEASURES
13.  We had earlier announced that Workforce Vaccination Measures would
be implemented starting from 1 January 2022[1] and also indicated that
we would be reviewing the concession for unvaccinated employees to go
back to the workplace with a negative Pre-Event Testing (PET) result.
14.  Following the review and discussion with tripartite partners, we
have decided to remove the PET concession for unvaccinated persons to
return to the workplace from 15 JANUARY 2022. Partially vaccinated
workers (i.e. those who have taken at least one dose of vaccine but are
not yet fully vaccinated) will be granted a grace period until 31
January 2022 to complete their vaccination regime. During the grace
period, they will continue to be able to enter the workplace with a
negative PET result.
15.  This change will help to protect unvaccinated individuals and to
create safer workplaces for everyone.The tripartite partners support the
move and have issued an updated advisory on COVID-19 vaccination at the
workplace, to provide guidance to employers and employees
(www.mom.gov.sg/vaccinationadvisory).
PROMOTING REGULAR SELF-TESTING WITH VOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTION OF ART KITS
TO WORKPLACES
16.  As more employees return to their workplace from 1 January 2022,
this may result in higher risk of workplace transmission, particularly
given the higher transmissibility of the Omicron variant. While our
workforce is highly vaccinated and hence protected from severe disease,
we encourage all firms to implement regular testing for all employees.
This will help to detect possible COVID-19 infection early and allow
individuals who test positive to take precautions to self-isolate and
protect their family, friends and colleagues. Higher risk workplaces are
already on mandatory FET RRT and we have extended funding support for
vaccinated individuals on RRT until 31 March 2022.
17.  TO SUPPORT LOWER-RISK WORKPLACES IN IMPLEMENTING REGULAR TESTING,
WE WILL CONDUCT A SECOND ROUND OF VOLUNTARY DISTRIBUTION OF ART KITS FOR
WORKPLACES. Firms with employees that work onsite and are not already
subject to mandatory RRT may apply for 8 ART kits per onsite vaccinated
employee for weekly testing over a two-month period, if they require the
funding support[2]. Applications will open from 3 to 31 January 2022.
More details will be made available
at www.go.gov.sg/time-limited-rrt-art closer to date.
VACCINATION AS A CONDITION FOR NEW APPLICATIONS FOR AND RENEWAL OF
LONG-TERM PASSES, WORK PASSES AND PERMANENT RESIDENCE
18.  To sustain our high vaccination rates, we had earlier introduced
the requirement for long-term pass holders to be vaccinated as an entry
requirement to Singapore. This has been in place since 1 November 2021.
From 1 FEBRUARY 2022, COVID-19 vaccination will be a condition for the
approval or grant of new long-term passes, work passes, as well as
permanent residence. Vaccination will also be required when renewing
existing work passes. More details on the vaccination condition can be
found in Annex A.
RESUMPTION OF TRAVEL FROM BOTSWANA, ESWATINI, GHANA, LESOTHO, MALAWI,
MOZAMBIQUE, NAMIBIA, NIGERIA, SOUTH AFRICA, AND ZIMBABWE
19.  We had previously announced that long-term pass holders and
short-term visitors with recent travel history to Botswana, Eswatini,
Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, and
Zimbabwe within the last 14 days will not be allowed entry into
Singapore or transit through Singapore for a period of four weeks
following initial reports on Omicron cases in these countries/regions.
20.  The Omicron variant has since spread widely around the world. We
will therefore lift the travel ban for these countries, and place them
under the Category IV classification. This means that all passengers
with 14-day travel history to Botswana, Eswatini, Ghana, Lesotho,
Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, and Zimbabwe prior
to departure to Singapore will be allowed to enter and transit through
Singapore from 26 DECEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS, and will be subjected to
border measures for Category IV countries/regions.
21.  The country/region classification and its corresponding border
measures may be found in Annex B. As the global situation evolves, we
will continue to adjust our border measures in tandem with our roadmap
to becoming a COVID resilient nation. The full list of Safe Travel Lanes
for travel to Singapore and prevailing border measures under each lane
for different categories and changes to border measures will be updated
on the SafeTravel website. Not all lanes may utilise the Category
I/II/III/IV health measure framework. Travellers are advised to visit
the website to check the latest border measures for their country/region
which will apply upon entry into Singapore and be prepared to be
subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry.
SHIFT TOWARDS LIVING WITH OMICRON VARIANT
22.  The adjustments to our measures aim to strike a balance between
slowing the spread of COVID-19 and continuing with our plan to live with
COVID-19. With the higher transmissibility of the Omicron variant, we
must expect a new wave of local cases soon. However, the peak of the
wave can be blunted and we can avoid overwhelming our healthcare system
again if everyone plays their part to get their vaccinations and booster
doses, self-test regularly and self-isolate if tested positive. Those
who have recently arrived from overseas or been in contact with an
infected person should also be socially responsible and reduce their
social interactions.
23.  With better understanding of Omicron, we also intend to take the
next step towards living with COVID-19 by partnering our community GPs
in caring for the majority of suitably fit individuals with mild
symptoms under an expanded Protocol 2. More details on this expanded
Protocol 2 will be released in early January 2022. We seek Singaporeans’
continued support to see us through this next challenge in our fight
against COVID-19.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 DECEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Please refer to MOM’s Press Release on 23 October 2021:
https://www.mom.gov.sg/newsroom/press-releases/2021/1023-implementation-of-workforce-vaccination-measures

[2] The unvaccinated would have to pay for their own PET from 1 January
2022 before returning to the workplace and from 15 January 2022 they
will not be allowed to return to office at all. Similarly, partially
vaccinated individuals would also have to pay for their own PET tests
until such time they are fully vaccinated.
