Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From South Africa



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM SOUTH AFRICA


Published Date: 01 Jan 2021

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the global
COVID-19 situation and will be tightening border measures given the
deteriorating situation in South Africa.

RESTRICTING TRAVEL FROM SOUTH AFRICA
2.  Travellers with recent travel history to South Africa within 14 days
prior to departure to Singapore are currently required to serve a 14-day
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities. Travellers who are
not Singapore Citizens or Permanent Residents are also required to take
a COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test within 72 hours before
departure and present a valid negative COVID-19 test result as a
condition of approval to enter Singapore.

3.  There have been recent reports of a potentially more contagious
strain of the COVID-19 virus circulating in South Africa. To reduce the
risks of spread to Singapore, we are putting in place new border
restrictions for travellers from South Africa for further precaution.
From 03 JANUARY 2021, 2359 HOURS, until further notice:

a) All long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel
history to South Africa within the last 14 days will not be allowed
entry into Singapore, or transit through Singapore. This restriction
will apply to those who have obtained prior approval for entry into
Singapore.

b) Returning Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents will be required
to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival in Singapore [1], at the
start of their 14-day SHN. These test requirements do not apply to those
who are only transiting through Singapore.
4.  While the strain has been suggested to be more transmissible, there
is currently insufficient evidence to determine if this strain is
associated with any change in disease severity, antibody response or
vaccine efficacy. These aspects are being investigated. MOH will
evaluate the data as it emerges and review our border measures
accordingly.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

5.  As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry,
including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, tests and
treatment.

6.   All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their travel
history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false
declarations.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1 JANUARY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https:\\safetravel.changiairport.com/
