Further Precautionary Measures to Protect Our Vulnerable Elderly From
Covid-19 Surge



FURTHER PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES TO PROTECT OUR VULNERABLE ELDERLY FROM COVID-19 SURGE


Published Date: 18 Jul 2021

       Over the past weekend, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has uncovered
clusters in wet markets and hawker food centres, likely seeded by
fishmongers and stallholders who visited the Jurong Fishery Port to
collect their stock and sell at these markets and food centres.  We have
found clusters at two markets - Hong Lim Market & Food Centre and Chong
Boon Market & Food Centre - as well as cases at Amoy Street Food Centre
and Chong Pang Market & Food Centre. In addition, persons at Whampoa Wet
Market, Telok Blangah Crescent Block 11, Taman Jurong Market, Redhill
Market, Geylang Serai Malay Market, Geylang Bahru Market, 527 Ang Mo Kio
Market, 726 West Coast Wet Market and Bukit Timah Wet Market have tested
positive via Antigen Rapid Tests (ART). All of them have since been
confirmed to be positive for COVID-19 infection with polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) testing.
2.     In today's testing, we have uncovered more cases, linked to the
above markets as well as other markets. Further details will be
announced in the regular MOH media release later.
3.     While we have conducted aggressive public health actions to
detect such cases, we are concerned that there remain cryptic
transmission chains which might continue to spread within our community.
The porous nature of wet markets makes contact tracing and isolation
less straightforward. We are particularly concerned that these wet
markets serve a range of customers, including the vulnerable elderly,
some of whom remain unvaccinated. They might be infected, and could
suffer severe symptoms.
4.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce is taking quick action to contain
and manage these clusters, including contact tracing, quarantining of
close contacts, and an aggressive testing strategy.  Group sizes will be
limited to 2 persons for hawker centres, food courts, and coffeeshops as
a default from 19 July 2021.  We will also tighten up measures to better
manage access to the affected wet markets from 19 July 2021 onwards.
5.     NEA and the Town Councils will be progressively implementing
access control with interim fencing and mandatory SafeEntry check-in at
markets where COVID-19 cases have been detected amongst stallholders or
stall assistants.  This includes the seven markets¹ where MOH has
recently detected COVID-19 cases amongst stallholders and stall
assistants. The added access control will better enable contact tracing
to ringfence cases.
6.     There are already another 13 popular markets² with access control
in place since the start of the Circuit Breaker where patrons are not
allowed to enter once the number of patrons in each market reaches the
stipulated allowable capacity. This is to avoid over-crowding and ensure
that effective safe distancing and enforcement can be carried out to
ensure everyone's safety. Eleven of the 13 markets also have mandatory
SafeEntry check-in implemented, which will be rolled out progressively
to the rest of the markets with access control.
7.     As announced by MTF on 15 July 2021, we will be implementing
vaccination-differentiated safe management measures in higher-risk
indoor mask-off activities such as F&B dine-in and gyms/fitness studios.
The default group size will be reduced from 5 persons to 2 persons.
However, we will allow individuals to continue in groups of up to 5
persons in these settings provided they are (i) fully vaccinated, or
(ii) recovered or (iii) have a valid negative pre-event test result for
the duration of their activity. Children aged 12 years and below who are
not eligible for the vaccines will also receive this concession. These
measures will proceed as originally planned, from 19 July through to 8
August 2021.
8.     However, given the heightened concerns over the potential for
community spread, we strongly advise unvaccinated individuals,
especially the elderly, to stay home as much as possible over the next
few weeks. We urge members of the public to reach out to your elderly
relatives or neighbours who remain unvaccinated to see what assistance
they may require, e.g. to buy daily necessities. With the upcoming
public holiday on 20 July, individuals should continue to limit their
overall number of social gatherings to not more than 2 per day, whether
it is to another household, or to meet with friends and family members
in a public place.
9.     Even those who are vaccinated but have unvaccinated elderly at
home, should avoid crowded places or extensive social interactions.
Vaccinated persons may still get infected with the virus, although most
will typically experience mild or no symptoms. They may then
inadvertently bring the virus home to seniors.
10.     We continue to urge everyone who is eligible - in particular our
seniors, who are most at risk of developing serious symptoms - to get
vaccinated as soon as possible. Seniors can walk in to any vaccine
centre for their vaccinations. They can also book an appointment through
the vaccine.gov.sg website. We also urge partially vaccinated
individuals to bring forward their second dose appointments so they can
be fully protected earlier. We remind all to observe prevailing safe
management measures - see a doctor if unwell, and get tested as early as
possible if they feel ill, even if they have been vaccinated.
11.     We have made significant progress in reopening and vaccinating
the Singapore population since the start of this year and we must not
lose our momentum. Any further steps towards reopening will only be
possible if everyone stays vigilant, gets vaccinated, and continues to
adhere to the safe management measures.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 JULY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Block 69 Geylang Bahru market; Block 79 Redhill Lane market; Block
11 Telok Blangah market; Block 92 Whampoa Drive market; Bukit Timah
Market; Taman Jurong Market and Block 726 Clementi West St 2 market.
[2] Block 105 Hougang Avenue 1 market; Block 209 Hougang Street 21
market; Block 335 Smith Street market; Block 341 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 1
market; Block 409 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 10 market; Block 453A Ang Mo Kio
Avenue 10 market; Block 527 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 10 market; Block 665
Buffalo Road market; Block 254 Jurong East Street 24 market; Geylang
Serai Market; Block 104/105 Yishun Ring Road (Chong Pang Market); Block
20/21 Marsiling Lane market; Block 505 Jurong West Street 52 market
