Interim Tightened Visitor Management Measures and Opportunistic Patient
Covid-19 Vaccination At All Hospitals



INTERIM TIGHTENED VISITOR MANAGEMENT MEASURES AND OPPORTUNISTIC PATIENT COVID-19 VACCINATION AT ALL HOSPITALS


Published Date: 04 Aug 2021

The Ministry of Health (MOH) has detected more COVID-19 community cases
recently, including staff and patients of hospitals. Any detection of
cases within a hospital will invariably lead to a ward closure, limiting
movements of patients and staff in and out of the affected ward.
Affected patients and staff will also be placed on quarantine. Such
measures while necessary to control further transmission of the virus,
will have an adverse impact on hospitals’ capacity in caring for
patients by reducing the availability of hospital staff and bed
capacities.
2. As an interim measure to reduce the potential transmission in the
hospitals, ALL VISITATION TO HOSPITAL WARDS WILL BE STOPPED FROM 5
AUGUST TO 18 AUGUST 2021 (BOTH DATES INCLUSIVE), except for the patient
groups below, who will be allowed visitation on a conditional and
case-by-case basis, as assessed by the hospital:
a. Patients whose conditions have turned very ill;
b. Paediatric patients;
c. Birthing/post-partum mothers; and
d. Patients requiring additional care support from caregivers. Examples
include assistance of inpatients who have mental incapacities and family
members who are undergoing caregiver training to better care for their
loved ones after hospital discharge.
3. For the above groups of patients, only one visitor is allowed per day
with visit duration of no more than 30 minutes (at the bedside). For
patients who are very ill, up to five pre-designated visitors may be
registered, with a maximum of two visitors at the patient’s bedside at
any one time of no more than 30 minutes visit duration. Any visitor who
requires to stay beyond 30 minutes visit duration such as caregiver
training, will only be allowed after the visitor test negative on a
supervised antigen rapid test (the validity of the result of this test
is 24 hours).
4. All visitors to the hospitals must don face masks with good
filtration capability at all times. These include reusable masks that
are made of two layers of fabrics, and surgical masks. There must be no
eating or drinking in the inpatient wards. Visitors must not use the
patients’ toilets in the wards and must avoid sitting on patients’ beds.
5. Relatedly, in our effort to get more people vaccinated, all patients
(inpatient and outpatient) who are unvaccinated will be approached by
the hospital healthcare team on COVID-19 vaccination if clinically
appropriate. Patients who receive their first dose of COVID-19
vaccination at the hospital should return to the same hospital for their
second dose. Vaccinated patients will protect other patients in the
hospital and reduce the risk of COVID-19 clusters in the hospitals.
6. MOH will review the above measures regularly and we seek the
understanding and cooperation of all Singaporeans as we make adjustments
to protect our patients and hospitals during this transition period
towards a COVID-resilient society.
