Start of Covid-19 Vaccination for Seniors



START OF COVID-19 VACCINATION FOR SENIORS


Published Date: 19 Feb 2021

       We are making good progress in our vaccination efforts. As of 18
February 2021, about 250,000 individuals have received their first dose
of the COVID-19 vaccine. Amongst them, more than 110,000 have also
received their second dose of the vaccine, and completed the full
vaccination regimen. Following the successful pilots in Ang Mo Kio and
Tanjong Pagar, we will commence COVID-19 vaccinations for seniors in the
community from 22 February.
VACCINATIONS FOR SENIORS
2.    Seniors are at higher risk of severe disease or complications from
COVID-19 infection, and have been prioritised for vaccination. The pilot
for vaccinations for seniors aged 70 years and above commenced on 27
January for seniors residing in Ang Mo Kio and Tanjong Pagar. Over 5,000
seniors from both towns have received their vaccinations as of 18
February. These seniors are scheduled to receive their second dose from
17 February onwards, and in two weeks, they will be adequately protected
against COVID-19.
3.   COVID-19 vaccination for seniors will commence island-wide from 22
February. Over the next three weeks, seniors aged 70 years and above can
expect to receive personalised letters inviting them to sign up for
vaccination. We will start by inviting seniors living near polyclinics
or vaccination centres, so that they can be conveniently vaccinated at a
vaccination site near their home. By mid-March when we have opened a
vaccination centre in each town, all seniors will be able to receive
their vaccination. We expect all the letters to reach our seniors aged
70 years and above by the first week of March.
4.   Thereafter we will move to vaccinate the seniors aged 60 to 69
years. They will receive their invitation letters around the middle of
March, and the vaccination will commence from around end-March onwards.
5.   Upon receiving the invitation letter, seniors can register online
for their vaccination at vaccine.gov.sg. Once registered, seniors will
receive an SMS with a unique link for them to book their vaccination
appointments. Seniors will be able to schedule their vaccinations at any
of the vaccination centres, 20 polyclinics, or 22 Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs)[1] operating as vaccination sites.
6.   Seniors who require assistance booking their vaccination
appointments can bring their invitation letter to any community
centre/club from 19 February, where staff members will be available to
assist them. Community volunteers from People’s Association and Silver
Generation Ambassadors will be conducting house visits and tapping on
grassroots events to help seniors with their appointment booking and
answer their queries. To reach out to seniors who may find it
challenging to visit a vaccination site in person due to mobility
issues, we will work with the relevant agencies to deploy mobile
vaccination teams to carry out vaccinations for these individuals.
7.   As the letters will be mailed based on official residential
addresses, seniors are encouraged to update their residential address
using the change of address e-service via the relevant government
websites[2], so that letters will be delivered to their place of
residence
MORE VACCINATION CENTRES FOR SENIORS’ CONVENIENCE
8.   To ensure that seniors can conveniently receive their vaccinations,
we will set up more vaccination centres in the coming weeks. Currently,
there are 11 vaccination centres in operation[3]. Three more vaccination
centres located at community centres/clubs will commence operations by
22 February, at Bukit Timah, Marine Parade and Taman Jurong, bringing
the total to 14. By the middle of March, 31 vaccination centres will be
in operation, with at least one vaccination centre in each town. In
total, there will eventually be around 40 vaccination centres, with each
vaccination centre planned for an estimated capacity of 2,000
vaccinations per day.
9.   These centres, together with the polyclinics and selected PHPCs,
will ensure that every Singaporean and long-term resident in Singapore
who is medically eligible can receive their vaccinations conveniently.
10.   Vaccination is critical to protect us and our loved ones against
COVID-19. Vaccination also protects those in our community who cannot be
vaccinated due to medical reasons. This collective protection will
become more effective as more people are vaccinated and is a key enabler
allowing us to return to normalcy. While COVID-19 vaccination will be
voluntary, we strongly encourage Singaporeans and long-term residents
who are medically eligible to come forward for vaccination when their
turn comes, so that as a society, we can keep each other safe from the
disease.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 FEBRUARY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Please visit vaccine.gov.sg for a list of operational vaccination
sites.

[2] Singaporean citizens, permanent residents (pink and blue IC holders)
can use the “Online Change of Address” e-Service at
https://go.gov.sg/ic-address. For ICA-issued Long-Term Visit Pass
holders, local sponsors can access the e-Update of Address eService at
https://www.ica.gov.sg. MOM-issued Work Pass holders and their family on
Dependant’s Pass or Long-Term Visit Pass can update their addresses
online at https://www.mom.gov.sg/eservices/services/ep-online.

[3] The 11 vaccination centres currently in operation are at Bishan
Community Club, Canberra Community Club, Changi Airport Terminal 4,
former Hong Kah Secondary School, Jalan Besar Community Club, Raffles
City Convention Centre, Senja-Cashew Community Club, The Serangoon
Community Club, Tanjong Pagar Community Club, Teck Ghee Community Club,
and Woodlands Galaxy Community Club.
