Measures Taken to Safeguard Health and Safety of Shore-based Personnel
In Maritime Sector



MEASURES TAKEN TO SAFEGUARD HEALTH AND SAFETY OF SHORE-BASED PERSONNEL IN MARITIME SECTOR


Published Date: 02 Jan 2021

The Ministry of Health (MOH) had earlier reported that a marine surveyor
and a harbour pilot had tested positive for COVID-19 infection on 30 and
31 December 2020 respectively. Contact tracing is underway to prevent
the clusters from spreading.

2.  The agencies are also investigating if there had been any
breach of COVID-19 safe management measures. Preliminary investigations
reveal that the marine surveyor, like the marine service engineer who
tested positive for COVID-19 infection earlier on 26 November 2020,
consumed food provided by or with the crew onboard the ships, which was
against a precautionary measure.

3.  The Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA),
Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB), and MOH take a serious view
of non-compliance with COVID-19 safe management measures and will not
hesitate to take firm actions against the errant companies and
individuals.

 a)  For the earlier case involving the marine service
engineer, MPA has stopped the company, Master Systems Marine Pte Ltd,
from sending any of its personnel to work onboard ships. This will
continue until the company can demonstrate that its employees will
adhere to safe management measures onboard ships.

 b)  For the latest case involving the marine surveyor,
Lloyd’s Register Singapore Pte Ltd has suspended all its shipboard
survey and audit activities. Lloyd’s Register will be testing all its
marine surveyors for COVID-19.

 c)  Further actions may be taken against the companies and
individuals after investigations have been completed.

4.  MPA also requires all shore-based personnel to give MPA
advance notice before they board ships to carry out works or provide
services. MPA will take firm action against the ship’s owner, master or
agent for non-compliances.

5.  For shipyards, EDB introduced mandatory precautionary
measures on 21 December 2020. Shipyards should only issue shipyard
acceptance letters to ships seeking repairs when a ship is compliant
with these measures. In addition, shipyards should only allow
shore-based personnel to board a ship for work when all crew have been
tested negative for COVID-19 infection on arrival at the shipyard.
Failure to comply could result in EDB enforcing work suspensions and/or
financial penalties.

6.  To protect shore-based personnel and minimise the risk of
exposure to COVID-19 during their work, MPA promulgated the Port Marine
Circular 35 of 2020 on 24 August 2020 which lists the precautionary
measures that all personnel going onboard ships must take. These include
wearing personal protective equipment (PPE), shortening the duration of
stay onboard to minimise exposure, no overnight stay onboard, avoiding
interactions with crew, having  designated work and rest area that is
segregated from crew, no loitering in crew living and common area,
bringing and consuming own individually packed food and drinks and
consuming meals separate from the ship’s crew and not sharing
food/drinks with the crew. Shore-based personnel in the maritime sector
are also on the rostered routine testing (RRT) and tested for COVID-19
every 14 days. Please refer to the Annex for Port Marine Circular 35 of
2020 for a list of the measures.

7.  In light of the two recent cases, MPA will tighten the
testing regime for all shore-based personnel going onboard ships. First,
all shore-based personnel going onboard ships will need to take a
COVID-19 PCR test within the next seven days, between 2 and 8 January
2021, to give assurance that they are clear of COVID-19. This will cover
more than 20,000 personnel. Second, they will thereafter be subject to a
tighter RRT regime; they will be tested every seven days instead of 14
days previously. Those who do not adhere to the RRT regime will not be
allowed to board ships to work.

8.  In addition, as announced by MOH on 31 December 2020,
there will be a special testing operation to test all workers who had
boarded the ships that the marine surveyor and harbour pilot, who tested
positive for COVID-19 infection, had recently worked on.

9.  MPA, EDB and relevant agencies will be stepping up checks
to ensure compliance of COVID-19 safe management measures by companies
and individuals. Individuals and companies which are found to have
violated these measures will be taken to task. Agencies will also review
the need to enhance PPE and infection control measures in the sector.

10.  In view of the risk of importing COVID-19 into Singapore,
MPA, MOH, EDB, and Enterprise Singapore, as well as industry
associations such as the Singapore Association of Ship Suppliers and
Services, Singapore Shipping Association, and Association of Singapore
Marine Industries, have been reminding the maritime community to stay
vigilant. MPA has also sent regular reminders to the industry to adhere
to precautionary measures when carrying out activities in the port.

11.  The Port of Singapore plays a critical role in supporting
Singapore’s economy. Shore-based personnel help keep our supply chains
flowing and ensure essential goods reach Singapore. Given the
cross-border nature of the industry, all personnel working in our port
must continue to stay vigilant to safeguard their and their families’
health and safety.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD
ENTERPRISE SINGAPORE
MARITIME AND PORT AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 JANUARY 2021
