Seven More Clinics Selected to Administer the Sinovac-coronavac Covid-19
Vaccine Under Special Access Route



SEVEN MORE CLINICS SELECTED TO ADMINISTER THE SINOVAC-CORONAVAC COVID-19 VACCINE UNDER SPECIAL ACCESS ROUTE


Published Date: 02 Jul 2021

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) has added another seven private
healthcare institutions to be licensed providers of the
Sinovac-CoronaVac (Sinovac) vaccine under the Special Access Route
(SAR). This makes a total of 31 clinics currently offering the Sinovac
vaccine. These providers can draw from the Government’s existing stock
and administer the vaccine to Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents
and persons holding Long-Term Passes who wish to take the vaccine.
2.     Since 18 June, the initial 24 selected clinics have been
providing the Sinovac vaccine in a cautious manner and managing the
number of vaccines they administer on a daily basis. Some of the group
clinics in the current list of providers are now ready to ramp up their
services to help improve the wait times for individuals on the clinics’
appointment lists. MOH has thus activated another seven clinics to
provide the Sinovac vaccine. These additional clinics will assist in
clearing the appointment lists from the 24 existing clinics and may not
take in new appointments from those opting to take Sinovac.
3.     Please refer to Annex A for the revised list of 31 selected
providers and their vaccination administration fee per dose of the
Sinovac vaccine. To avoid queues, please call the clinic or visit their
website to book an appointment prior to heading down to the clinic for
vaccination. Those who walk into the clinics without prior appointment
will be turned away. Individuals are also reminded not to crowd outside
the clinics and that safe distancing measures should be adhered to at
all times.
4.     As the Sinovac vaccine remains unregistered, it has not undergone
a full evaluation for its safety and efficacy, and will not be covered
under the Vaccine Injury Financial Assistance Programme (VIFAP) meant
for vaccines under our national vaccination programme. Individuals who
wish to receive the Sinovac vaccine should discuss its risks and
benefits with their doctors at these selected private healthcare
institutions, and jointly make an informed decision.
5.     Currently, we grant vaccine privileges such as exemption from
Pre-Event Testing (PET) to individuals fully vaccinated with the two
COVID-19 vaccines under our national vaccination programme. This is
because there is ample data and studies that show that these individuals
pose lower risk of being infected and hence lower risk of transmitting
the COVID-19 virus, including the more contagious Delta variant.
However, there is insufficient international data thus far on the
effectiveness of the Sinovac vaccine against the Delta variant. Hence
PET continues to be needed for individuals vaccinated with the Sinovac
vaccine.  As the Delta variant becomes more dominant around the world
and more data becomes available, we will make an objective assessment
and review whether individuals who have received SAR vaccines can also
be exempted from PET.
6.     MOH plans to bring in other non-mRNA vaccines to be part of the
national vaccination programme before the end of the year, subject to
supply and regulatory approval. More details will be provided at a later
date. If approved under our national programme, those inoculated with
these vaccines will similarly be exempted from PET.
7.     We urge individuals to consider their options carefully, consult
their doctors if they have concerns on the vaccine and be vaccinated to
better protect themselves, their family and society.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 JULY 2021


