Collective Actions to Slow Down Community Transmission



COLLECTIVE ACTIONS TO SLOW DOWN COMMUNITY TRANSMISSION


Published Date: 06 Sep 2021

      Over the last week, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has uncovered
several large clusters such as at bus interchanges, BHG Bugis Junction
and Changi General Hospital. Many of the cases and clusters arose
because of higher levels of interactions between people, either in
social settings or workplaces.
2.      While Singapore continues to transit to living with the virus as
a COVID-19 resilient nation, we need to continue to ensure that our
hospital capacity can cope with the rising cases, bearing in mind we
still admit many patients for observation in hospitals as a precaution,
even though they have no or mild symptoms. Hence, last Friday (3
September 2021), the Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced that we will be
taking several actions to slow down community transmission, including
through more pervasive testing. In particular, we will implement
additional measures targeted at detecting cases quickly and reducing
infections in workplaces, so as to reduce the risk of large spikes in
cases.
UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION
3.     Our high vaccination coverage has allowed us to keep the
incidences of severe illnesses and deaths low amongst vaccinated
individuals. However, unvaccinated individuals remain susceptible - over
the last 28 days, 6.7% of unvaccinated cases fell severely ill or died.
Meanwhile, the number of new infection cases in the community has almost
doubled to more than 1,200 cases in the week ending 5 September 2021, up
from around 600 cases in the week before. If the infection continues at
this trajectory, we will see a doubling of cases every week. This means
that we can expect to see more individuals suffer serious consequences
due to COVID-19 infection.
4.     Thus, we need to take quick action now to dampen the increasing
likelihood of an exponential increase in cases. This will also buy us
time to get more people, in particular seniors, vaccinated as soon as
possible, and also to roll out our booster programme to those aged 60
and above.
UPDATES TO PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIONS
5.     We will continue strengthening public health actions to reduce
the spread of infection. Once a cluster of cases is identified, in
addition to the quarantine of close contacts, we will send out Health
Risk Warnings (HRW) and Health Risk Alerts (HRA) to individuals to cast
a wide net around the cases, and to contain the clusters quickly. With
more cases circulating in the community, there will also be more people
being issued such HRWs or HRAs.
6.     HRW and HRA are not quarantine orders. However, individuals who
receive a HRW will be required by law to get a polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) test and self-isolate until they receive a negative result from
their first test. They will also be required to do ART tests thereafter,
and a PCR test on the 14th day. Individuals who receive a HRA are not
subject to actions required by the law but are strongly encouraged to go
for a PCR test as soon as possible. FOR BOTH HRW AND HRA, INDIVIDUALS
SHOULD REDUCE THEIR SOCIAL INTERACTIONS FOR 14 DAYS.
UPDATES TO TESTING REGIMES
7.     Testing continues to be an important part of our strategy to
detect and ringfence infections in the community early. Given the rate
of increase in community spread, we will be increasing the frequency of
our mandatory Fast and Easy Test (FET) Rostered Routine Testing (RRT)
regime from once every fortnight to once a week. This enhanced
frequency, which will take effect from 13 September 2021, will allow us
to detect and ringfence cases more quickly. This is particularly
important given the infectiousness of the Delta variant, as observed
locally where there have been shorter periods between each generation of
infection.
8.     The mandatory FET RRT is now in place for higher-risk settings
such as F&B, personal care services, and gym and fitness studios. We
will extend this requirement to more settings with frequent community
interactions. This includes settings such as retail mall workers,
supermarket staff, last-mile delivery personnel (including parcel and
food delivery personnel), and public and private transport workers (taxi
drivers, private hire car drivers and all public transport frontline
staff). All workers who have to go to work in such settings must also
undergo a seven-day FET RRT regime. These tests will continue to be
administered primarily through Employer Supervised Self-Swab. The
Government will subsidise the costs of all tests under this enhanced
surveillance regime, for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals,
until the end of 2021. The relevant Government Agencies will release
more details on the enhanced surveillance regime at a later date.
9.     Besides the sectors that are subject to mandatory RRT, we want to
step up regular testing, especially for those who are now working
onsite. Hence the MTF will undertake a time-limited distribution of ART
kits to companies. We will offer each company 8 kits per employee, for
weekly testing of their staff over a two-month period. With these kits,
we expect all companies to initiate weekly testing for their onsite
staff. These tests can be administered by the individuals themselves at
home, or at the work premises. But employers should put in place a
process to ensure that the tests are done properly, and report the
results to respective Government Agencies. More details will be made
available at a later date.
10.     We hope that the distribution of ART kits to both households and
companies will help to instil a culture of responsibility in
administering regular self-tests. This will become an important tool in
the new normal, so that we can dampen the impact of COVID-19 without
having to impose heightened alerts.
11.     However, testing alone is not enough. We must also all continue
to practise socially responsible behaviour: visit a doctor if feeling
unwell, and self-isolate and not report to work. Employers are also
strongly encouraged to remind your employees to visit a doctor if
feeling unwell and not report to work, and to work out business
continuity plans to cater to the scenario of positive cases in your
workplace if it occurs despite your best efforts to ask them to stay at
home if unwell.
UPDATES TO SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
_WORKPLACE MEASURES_
12.     We have observed that the recent clusters in workplace settings
have taken place because of lax Safe Management Measures, especially in
areas like staff canteens and pantries where people tend to let their
guard down and interact amongst themselves without their masks on.
Hence, we will no longer allow social gatherings and interactions at
workplaces from 8 September 2021.
13.     In addition, we will take tougher action if there are positive
cases amongst workers who are infected. In particular, employers will be
required to put in place a maximum Work-From-Home (WFH) requirement over
a 14 day period, should one or more of their workers be found to have
contracted COVID-19 and have returned to their workplace. This means
that everyone in the company who can WFH will be required to do so.
Those who are working from home should minimise social gatherings and
leave their homes only for essential activities during this 14-day
period. More details will be released by MOM.
_SOCIAL GATHERINGS_
14.     We strongly encourage all individuals, especially the vulnerable
elderly or persons staying with elderly, to reduce their non-essential
social activities for the next two weeks. We should continue to limit
our social circle to a small group of regular contacts and limit
ourselves to one social gathering a day, whether to another household or
in a public place. All individuals, including both vaccinated and
unvaccinated individuals, should also self-test regularly with ARTs,
especially if we participate in higher-risk activities or attend
large-scale events. These ART kits are now sold at most supermarkets and
convenience stores.
TOWARDS A COVID-RESILIENT SINGAPORE
15.     We will monitor the local situation closely for the next two
weeks. We seek everyone's cooperation in ramping up self-testing and in
observing all safe management measures so that we can lower transmission
risks together. Everyone can play their role by minimising their
movement and social interactions so that we can reduce footfall at
common spaces at or near the workplace and in public venues, especially
when there are sharp increases in transmissions. If you are unwell,
please see a doctor and get tested, and self-isolate and not report to
work or participate in social activities until you have recovered. We
will continue to work together with Singaporeans to emerge stronger and
safer in our journey towards a COVID-19 resilient nation.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 SEPTEMBER 2021

