24 Private Healthcare Institutions Selected to Administer the
Government's Stock of Sinovac-coronavac Covid-19 Vaccine



24 PRIVATE HEALTHCARE INSTITUTIONS SELECTED TO ADMINISTER THE GOVERNMENT'S STOCK OF SINOVAC-CORONAVAC COVID-19 VACCINE


Published Date: 16 Jun 2021

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) has selected 24 private healthcare
institutions licensed under the Private Hospitals and Medical Clinics
Act (PHMCA) to be licensed providers of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine
under the Special Access Route (SAR). These providers will draw from
MOH's existing stock, and can administer the vaccine to Singapore
Citizens, Permanent Residents and persons holding Long-Term Passes who
wish to take the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine.
2.      MOH reviewed the applications based on the providers' ability to
administer the vaccines safely, properly and efficiently. MOH also
considered the providers' proposed vaccination administration fees,
experience in vaccine administration and its compliance history at past
licensing inspections, so as to ensure that the services will be safe
and affordable to members of public.
3.      The list of selected providers and their vaccination
administration fee per dose of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine is listed
in Annex A. As these vaccines are being provided to the providers at no
cost, individuals should take note that the providers should not charge
them for the vaccine cost. The vaccination administration fees listed is
also inclusive of consultation and 7% GST, so there should not be any
additional costs (beyond the vaccination administration fees listed)
charged by these providers. Interested individuals may contact these
providers directly from 18 June 2021 for more details on how they may
receive the vaccine.
4.      As the Sinovac-CoronaVac COVID-19 vaccine remains unregistered
and is not authorised by the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) for use
under the Pandemic Special Access Route, it is to be provided only under
the SAR framework, and hence will not be covered under the Vaccine
Injury Financial Assistance Programme (VIFAP) meant for our national
vaccination programme. Individuals who nevertheless wish to receive
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccinations under the SAR framework should discuss
with their doctors in the selected private healthcare institutions the
risks and benefits of using the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine, and jointly
make an informed decision.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 JUNE 2021
