Suspension of Eng’s Wanton Noodles At 287 Tanjong Katong Road Lifted
After Meeting Required Standards



SUSPENSION OF ENG’S WANTON NOODLES AT 287 TANJONG KATONG ROAD LIFTED AFTER MEETING REQUIRED STANDARDS


Published Date: 28 Jun 2021

          The Singapore Food Agency (SFA) has lifted the suspension of
Eng’s Wanton Noodles’ (located at 287 Tanjong Katong Road) food business
operations today. As the licensee has implemented the required measures
as stipulated by SFA, operations can be resumed.



2         The Ministry of Health (MOH) and SFA had received reports of
gastroenteritis involving 68 persons who consumed food prepared at Eng’s
Wanton Noodles between 14 and 17 May 2021. They either sought outpatient
treatment, self-medicated, or recovered without treatment, and none were
hospitalised. To protect consumers from further public health risks, the
food business operations of Eng’s Wanton Noodles was suspended by SFA
from 18 May to 28 June 2021.



3         Investigation into the cause of the gastroenteritis illness is
ongoing.



MEASURES TAKEN BY ENG’S WANTON NOODLES



4         During the suspension period, Eng’s Wanton Noodles has
complied with measures stipulated by SFA. The licensee has disposed all
ready-to-eat food, thawed food and perishable food items, and also
cleaned and sanitised their premises, including their equipment and
utensils.



5          Food handlers who will be involved in food preparation have
since re-attended and passed the Basic Food Hygiene course. The Food
Hygiene Officer[1](FHO) for Eng’s Wanton Noodles has also undergone
training and passed the WSQ Conduct Food and Beverage Hygiene Audit
course.



CONTINUING SURVEILLANCE



6         Following the lifting of suspension, SFA will continue to
place Eng’s Wanton Noodles under close surveillance to ensure that it
adheres to food safety requirements.



PUBLIC ADVISORY



7          To prevent the spread of disease and protect oneself from
acquiring infections, individuals should practise good personal hygiene
at all times. These include:

• Washing hands with soap and water before eating and after going to the
toilet;

• Covering mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing, and
throwing the tissue away into a bin immediately; and

• Not sharing food/drinks, eating utensils, toothbrushes or towels with
others.



8         In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food hygiene
at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise members of
the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food establishments
not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via the online
feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our follow-up
investigations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY

28 JUNE 2021
