Extension of the Suspension of In-person Visits to Hospitals and
Residential Care Homes



EXTENSION OF THE SUSPENSION OF IN-PERSON VISITS TO HOSPITALS AND RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES


Published Date: 21 Oct 2021

     The Ministry of Health (MOH) will continue to suspend in-person
visits at all hospital¹ wards and residential care homes until 21
November 2021 (inclusive). This will protect healthcare capacity and
vulnerable seniors during this period when COVID-19 cases in the
community are rising.



2.  MOH had earlier announced the suspension of in-person
visits to hospitals till 23 October 2021 (inclusive), as well as to
residential care homes until 24 October 2021 (inclusive). In the past
two weeks, the rise in COVID-19 cases in the community has increased
COVID-19 admissions to the hospitals. There were also several new
COVID-19 clusters amongst patients and residents in the hospitals and
residential care homes. To protect healthcare capacity during this
period, as well as care homes residents who are more vulnerable,
in-person visits to hospitals and residential care homes will continue
to be suspended.



3. Concurrently, booster vaccination has been ramped up for
healthcare workers and seniors, including those residing in residential
care homes, to mitigate the risk of large outbreaks in the hospitals and
residential care homes.



IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOSPITALS



4.  During the suspension of in-person visits to all hospital
wards, the following patient groups will continue to be allowed visitors
on a case-by case basis, as assessed by the hospitals:



a.  Patients who are in critical condition;

b.  Paediatric patients;

c.  Birthing/post-partum mothers; and
d.             Patients requiring additional care support from
caregivers. Examples of caregivers include those providing assistance to
inpatients who have mental incapacities or family members who are
undergoing caregiver training to better care for their loved ones after
hospital discharge.



5.  The above patient groups would be allowed only one
pre-designated visitor, with one visit per day. Patients who are in
critical condition may be allowed up to five pre-designated visitors,
with a maximum of two visitors at the patient’s bedside at any one time.



6.  All visitors to hospital wards during this period will
need to produce a valid negative antigen rapid test (ART) result
obtained within the last 24 hours of each visit, as administered or
supervised by MOH-approved COVID-19 test providers (including tests
performed at Quick Test Centres). This is a mandatory requirement for
all visitors regardless of vaccination status, except for persons who
have recovered from COVID-19 and are able to present a valid Pre-Event
Test (PET) exemption notice².



7.  All visitors approved to enter hospital wards must don
face masks with good filtration capability at all times. These include
surgical masks and reusable masks that are made of two layers of
fabrics. Visitors are reminded not to eat or drink in the hospital
wards, or use the patients’ toilets in the wards. They should also avoid
sitting on patients’ beds.



IN-PERSON VISITS AT RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES



8.  During the period where in-person visits are suspended,
residential care homes have the discretion to allow visits for
exceptional cases, for example if the resident is critically ill. These
visitors would be subject to visitor management measures as advised by
the residential care homes.



9.  Residential care homes would also be focusing on rolling
out booster vaccinations for their residents during this period. As
residents of care homes tend to be more susceptible to severe illness if
infected, we strongly encourage all next-of-kin of residents to support
their loved ones in getting vaccinated and/or receiving their booster
dose once eligible. This would ensure that they have a high level of
immunity and are protected from severe disease.



SAFEGUARDING THE WELL-BEING OF OUR PATIENTS/RESIDENTS



10.  To ensure that patients/residents remain connected with
their loved ones, the hospitals and residential care homes will continue
to support alternative methods of communication such as through
telephone or video calls.



11.  MOH will review and calibrate these measures regularly in
line with the evolving situation. We seek the understanding and
cooperation of patients/residents, and their family members and loved
ones as we work to safeguard them and the staff to reduce the risk of
COVID-19 importation and transmission in our healthcare institutions and
residential care facilities.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 OCTOBER 2021

[1] Includes public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals

[2] Recovered individuals (within last 270 days) can obtain a PET
Exemption Notice from any clinic offering ART or Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) testing services.
