Going Back to Phase 2 Heightened Alert



GOING BACK TO PHASE 2 HEIGHTENED ALERT


Published Date: 20 Jul 2021

In response to growing COVID-19 clusters detected at KTV lounges or
nightclubs that had pivoted as Food & Beverage (F&B) establishments, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) had earlier announced a tightening of
community measures under Phase 3 (Heighted Alert) from 19 JULY 2021
through 8 AUGUST 2021. Since then, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
uncovered more clusters linked to the Jurong Fishery Port, especially in
wet markets and hawker food centres. This is very concerning, as it can
affect many people in our community all over the island.
2. Furthermore, unlike the KTV cluster, which had spread first amongst
younger population segments, the current wave of infection affects a
wider spectrum of the population including many seniors. At the current
rate of transmission, it is likely that infection cases will rise
sharply, and many people in the community will catch the virus. While
close to 50% of the population have completed their vaccination regimen,
there remains a number of vulnerable individuals, such as our seniors,
who have yet to take up vaccination. Unvaccinated individuals are at
higher risk of being infected, and higher risk of being seriously ill if
infected. Hence, in the meantime, we must act decisively to contain the
current outbreak and minimise the risk of our hospital capacity being
overwhelmed, while we race ahead to vaccinate those who have not
completed or started their vaccination. We remain on track to having
two-thirds of our population complete the vaccination regimen by
National Day, and are aiming for much higher coverage amongst our
seniors.
UPDATE ON LOCAL SITUATION
3. Within the community, we have several clusters emerging around (i)
multiple nightlife establishments, (ii) the Jurong Fishery Port (JFP),
and (iii) several wet markets and hawker food centres. We have cast a
wide net and are testing widely to ringfence possible emerging
transmissions. We have placed all JFP workers under quarantine and have
started mass surveillance testing of all stallholders and stall
assistants of market and cooked food stalls at markets and hawker
centres managed by the National Environment Agency (NEA) or
NEA-appointed operators. NEA and Town Councils have also started
progressively implementing access control with interim fencing and
mandatory SafeEntry check-in at markets where COVID-19 cases have been
detected amongst stallholders and stall assistants. Residents living
near such markets are advised to minimise their movement and social
interactions, and to collect and perform self-testing using antigen
rapid test (ART) kits that will be made available at Residents’
Committee Centres near them. Those who are vaccinated but who live with
seniors who are unvaccinated should also limit their social interactions
and movement, as they may inadvertently bring the virus home and infect
the unvaccinated seniors.
4. Despite these measures, the number of community linked and unlinked
cases has continued to escalate. Between 12 July 2021 and 18 July 2021,
we detected an average of 46 community cases per day. This is the
highest number of cases we have detected since April 2020. The porous
nature of wet markets and hawker food centres which serve a range of
customers including vulnerable seniors, also increases the risk of
undetected cryptic transmission. As we continue to conduct extensive
testing for individuals exposed to the risk of infection, we can expect
case numbers to increase in the coming days. With the growing number of
clusters linked to JFP, the ongoing measures to break the chains of
transmission may not be sufficient.
REVERSION TO SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR PHASE 2 (HEIGHTENED ALERT)
5. We will therefore be further tightening community safe management
measures by going back to Phase 2 (Heightened Alert)¹. The following
measures will take effect from 22 JULY 2021 through 18 AUGUST 2021 and
will supersede those that were introduced on 19 July 2021. We will do a
review of the measures two weeks after implementation, and will adjust
further based on the infection situation at that time. Please refer to
Annex A for full details on the updated safe management measures.
Permissible Group Sizes
6. Permissible group sizes for social gatherings will be reduced from
maximum of 5 persons to MAXIMUM OF 2 PERSONS, together with a cap of 2
distinct visitors per household per day. Individuals should continue to
limit their overall number of social gatherings to not more than 2 per
day, whether to another household, or meeting with friends and family
members in a public place.
7. To allow families’ current childcare arrangements to continue,
grandchildren being cared for daily by their grandparents will not be
counted towards the cap of 2 distinct visitors per household, or to the
number of social gatherings per day. Grandparents are strongly
encouraged to be vaccinated against COVID-19, to protect both themselves
and their grandchildren. To reduce the risk of transmission,
grandparents should also minimise intermingling between grandchildren
from different households.
Minimising Workplace Interactions
8. Work-from-home will continue to be the default at workplaces.
Employers must ensure that employees who are able to work from home do
so. There should continue to be no cross-deployment of workers to
multiple worksites. Employers should continue to stagger the start times
of employees who need to return to the workplace and implement flexible
working hours. Social gatherings at the workplace will not be allowed.
Cessation of Mask-Off Activities
9. To reduce the risks of community transmission, both indoor and
outdoor dine-in F&B establishments (including hawker centres and food
courts) will only be able to offer takeaway and delivery options.
Strenuous indoor exercise classes, or strenuous individual and group
indoor sports and exercise activities, will also cease. In addition,
personalised services which require masks to be removed (e.g. facials,
saunas, make-up services), singing, and the playing of instruments that
require intentional expulsion of air (e.g. wind or brass instruments)
will also not be allowed. These restrictions will not apply to medical
and dental consultations that require patients to have their masks
removed. Non-medical facial treatments will not be exempted from these
restrictions.
10. Staff who work at settings with unmasked clients/patrons and were
placed on mandatory regular Fast and Easy Test (FET) regimes beginning
from mid-July, will not be required to conduct FETs during this period
if their business operations are suspended. For businesses that continue
to remain open (including F&B outlets that stay open for delivery/
takeaways), their staff must continue with the regular 14-day FET
requirement. Such regular FET will continue to be made free of charge
during this period.
Reduction of Activity and Event Sizes and Pre-Event Testing Requirements
11. To minimise the likelihood of large cluster formations, we will
scale down event sizes and lower the event size caps. Pre-event testing
(PET) remains an essential measure to help ensure that events can
proceed safely for attendees.
a. Live performances and MICE. Up to 100 persons may be allowed with
PET, and up to 50 persons may be allowed without PET. Unmasking is not
allowed for speakers and performers, and there should be no singing or
playing of instruments that require intentional expulsion of air (e.g.
wind and brass instruments).
b. Spectator and participatory sports events. Up to 100 persons may be
allowed for spectator and participatory sports events with PET
implemented. PET would not be required if there are 50 persons or less.
Further details will be issued by SportSG.
c. Marriage solemnisations and wedding receptions. Marriage
solemnisations may continue for up to 100 participants with PET, and 50
participants without PET. We acknowledge that wedding couples have faced
significant uncertainties over the past few months. Hence, as a special
provision, wedding receptions may be allowed to continue with up to 100
persons with PET for all persons, and with a group size of up to 5
persons per table. This will allow couples to continue with their
wedding plans, albeit with some adjustments. All wedding guests must
strictly abide by the safe management measures, and in particular
maintain social distancing and avoid mingling with others beyond their
own table. Given their higher vulnerability, we also strongly discourage
unvaccinated individuals from attending such events until they are fully
vaccinated.
d. Attractions and shows. The operating capacity of attractions that
have received MTI’s prior approval will be reduced to 25% from the
current permissible capacity of 50%. Indoor and outdoor shows may
proceed with up to 100 persons with PET, and up to 50 persons without
PET.
e. Cinemas. Up to 100 persons may be allowed into cinema halls with PET
implemented. Only up to 50 persons may be allowed without PET. The
prevailing group size of 2 persons applies, and food and beverages may
not be sold or consumed in the cinema.
f. Congregational and other worship services. Congregational and other
worship services may continue with up to 100 persons with PET, and up to
50 persons may be allowed without PET. To further mitigate the risk of
spread through aerosol transmissions, religious workers and all other
participants must wear their masks at all times. Live singing and
playing of wind or brass instruments will also be suspended during this
period.
g. Museums and public libraries. Museums and public libraries will be
allowed to operate at a reduced capacity of 25%.
h. Shopping malls and showrooms. The occupancy limits for shopping malls
and showrooms will be reduced from the current limit of 10sqm per person
of Gross Floor Area, to 16sqm per person.
TARGETED SUPPORT MEASURES
12. In view of the tightened safe management measures until 18 AUGUST
2021, the Government will provide a support package to affected
businesses and workers. The package will take reference from the support
provided in the previous Phase Two (Heightened Alert). The Ministry of
Finance will announce more details in the next few days.
MANDATORY SAFEENTRY CHECK-IN AT WET MARKETS AND HAWKER CENTRES
ISLAND-WIDE
13. Wet markets and hawker centres are places frequently visited by
members of the community and are also where many seniors tend to
congregate. The potential for transmission is high given the close
proximity between individuals or mask-off activities, as evidenced by
the recent clusters detected at these settings. There is a need to
facilitate quicker contact tracing efforts so that potential
transmission at these settings can be curbed. As announced on 18 July
2021, NEA and the Town Councils will be progressively implementing
access control with interim fencing and mandatory SafeEntry (SE)
check-in at markets where COVID-19 cases have been detected amongst
stallholders or stall assistants.
14. In the coming weeks, we will progressively introduce
TraceTogether-only SafeEntry (TT-only SE) and SafeEntry Gateway (SEGW)
check-in requirements at all other wet markets and hawker centres
island-wide. This means that everyone entering wet markets and hawker
centres must check in with their TraceTogether (TT) App or Token using
the SEGW, or by scanning the SE QR code with the TT App. We encourage
all members of public to comply with SE check-in requirements and to
carry their TT Token or keep their TT App active to facilitate contact
tracing, and help protect themselves and their loved ones.
TOWARDS A COVID-19 RESILIENT SINGAPORE
15. We have made significant progress in vaccinating the Singapore
population and we must not lose our momentum. As Singapore’s vaccination
coverage continues to increase, we will re-introduce vaccination
differentiated SMMs at an appropriate time. This will allow individuals
who have been fully vaccinated under the national vaccination programme
to participate in more community and economic activities, and in larger
events, while protecting those who are unvaccinated. We urge everyone
who is eligible, in particular seniors who are most at risk of
developing serious symptoms, to step forward and get vaccinated as soon
as possible. We are deploying Mobile Vaccination Teams to estates where
there are more unvaccinated seniors. Seniors can also walk into any
vaccination centre for their first appointment. We encourage all to
register their interest via vaccine.gov.sg and book their appointments.
16. During this period of Phase 2 (Heightened Alert), we seek everyone’s
cooperation to observe all safe management measures so that we can lower
transmission risks. This can be done with everyone playing their role to
minimise their movement and social interactions so that we can reduce
footfall at common spaces at or near the workplace and in public places,
including public transport. If you are unwell, see a doctor and get
tested. It is only together, that we can emerge stronger and safer.
[1] Prevailing from 16 May 2021 to 13 June 2021.
