MOH Appoints Multilateral Healthcare Insurance Committee



MOH APPOINTS MULTILATERAL HEALTHCARE INSURANCE COMMITTEE


Published Date: 14 Apr 2021

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) has appointed a 12-member
Multilateral Healthcare Insurance Committee (MHIC) to provide a platform
for healthcare providers, payors, consumer representatives and the
Government to collaboratively address issues related to health
insurance. The MHIC’s appointment will come into effect on 27 April
2021.
2.    The MHIC comprises representatives from the Academy of Medicine,
Singapore (AMS), Consumer Association of Singapore (CASE), Fee
Benchmarks Advisory Committee (FBAC), Life Insurance Association (LIA),
Singapore Medical Association (SMA) and private hospitals. The MHIC is
co-chaired by MOH’s Deputy Secretary (Policy), Ms Ngiam Siew Ying and
Deputy Director of Medical Services (Health Performance Group), Dr
Daphne Khoo. The full list of the Multilateral Healthcare Insurance
Committee members is at AnnexA.
3.    The MHIC will be the primary platform through which MOH, doctors,
insurers and hospitals work together to enhance Singapore’s healthcare
insurance system. It will work in the public and patients’ best interest
in providing recommendations on ensuring quality, safe, cost-effective
and affordable healthcare for Singaporeans. It will recommend
improvements to manage rising healthcare costs in the current healthcare
insurance system. It will also guide the establishment of platforms to
address complaints and conflicts arising from healthcare insurance
claims.
4.    The involvement of AMS, FBAC, LIA, SMA and private hospitals in
the Committee provides opportunity for the stakeholders to work
collaboratively towards the shared objectives of the MHIC, and be
ambassadors for decisions taken by the MHIC. CASE’s participation will
also help to represent and uphold policyholders’ interests.
5.    The MHIC stems from an earlier Pro-Tem Committee established in
October 2020 between AMS, LIA and SMA, to facilitate discussions related
to Integrated Shield Plans (IPs). Since its inception, the Pro-Tem
Committee has made progress over issues such as the amendment of IP
contracts’ exclusion clauses to cover medically indicated diagnostic
procedures, improving consumer education on IP, improving panel sizes
and facilitating the setting of panel fees to be within the MOH Fee
Benchmarks.
6.    The MHIC will build on the work of the Pro-Tem Committee, and will
focus on key priority areas including improvements to the accessibility
and transparency of IP doctor panels, enhancements to the claims
pre-authorisation process for treatment, and improving transparency
across the board. More details on the MHIC’s recommendations will be
released when ready.
7.    MOH will continue to work collaboratively with all stakeholders to
strike a balance between preserving patient choice, while ensuring
quality, cost-effective and sustainable care.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 APRIL 2021


