Covid-19 Vaccination Dose Interval to Be Shortened As National
Vaccination Programme Is Accelerated



COVID-19 VACCINATION DOSE INTERVAL TO BE SHORTENED AS NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME IS ACCELERATED


Published Date: 29 Jun 2021

       We continue to make steady progress with our national vaccination
programme. As of 28 June, we have administered more than 5.3 million
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. Around 3.3 million individuals, or about
60% of our population, have received at least the first dose of the
vaccine. 2.1 million individuals have received their second dose and
completed the full vaccination regimen.
2.     Take-up rate has been encouraging. As of 28 June 2021, about 76%
of eligible seniors aged 60 and above, 78% of eligible persons aged 45
to 59, and 73% of eligible persons aged 40 to 44 have received their
COVID-19 vaccination or booked their vaccination appointments. Almost
80% of Singapore Citizens (SC) aged 12-39 years, including MOE students,
have also received vaccinations or booked their appointments. Since 24
June, about 50,000 have also brought forward the date of their
vaccination appointments for their first dose.
3.     We strongly encourage SCs aged 12-39 years who have not yet
registered and booked their appointments to do so quickly, so that they
can be protected against COVID-19 as early as possible.
SHORTENING DOSE INTERVAL, SPEEDING UP VACCINATIONS
4.     On 18 May 2021, we extended the interval between the first and
second doses of the COVID-19 vaccines in our national vaccination
programme to an interval of 6 to 8 weeks. This was to maximise first
dose coverage within our population. As we confirmed our supply delivery
and ramped up our vaccination rate, we expect that the majority of the
population in Singapore will have been offered and received their first
dose vaccination in the second half of July.  By then, we would have
achieved our objective of giving as many people as possible good
protection.
5.     Hence, from 29 JUNE 2021 onwards, we will shorten the minimum
interval between the first and second doses of the vaccine from 6 to 8
weeks, to 4 weeks for both the Pfizer-BioNTech / Comirnaty and Moderna
vaccines. This will ensure that more of our population can now be fully
vaccinated earlier.
6.     All eligible individuals who make their vaccination appointments
from 29 JUNE ONWARDS will be able to schedule their first and second
dose appointments 4 weeks apart. Individuals who have already received
their first doses, and with second dose appointments currently scheduled
6 to 8 weeks later, can also rebook and bring forward their second dose
appointments to 4 weeks from their first dose appointment. They can do
so by using the same personalised booking link in the SMS that they had
earlier received.
7.     Given the steady vaccination take-up by Singapore Citizens, and
that new registrations from the 12-39 age group has tapered off, we will
also bring forward the start date of the national vaccination programme
for Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass holders in Singapore aged 12
to 39 years from the earlier announced date of 2 July 2021 to 30 JUNE
2021. This will help sustain the momentum of vaccinations and better
utilise our delivery capacity.  Individuals will be able to register
their interest online via vaccine.gov.sg. After registration, they will
be progressively invited to book their vaccination appointments via an
SMS with a personalised booking link sent to the mobile number they
registered with, and can book their set of two appointments, four weeks
apart, starting from 30 June onwards.
KEEPING OUR COMMUNITY SAFE
8.     Vaccination remains a key enabler in our fight against COVID-19
and its ability to help Singapore re-open safely can only be felt when
we can collectively achieve a high level of population coverage for
vaccination. We encourage all to register their interest via
vaccine.gov.sg and book their appointments and get vaccinated when they
are offered.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 JUNE 2021



