Benefits of Mrna Covid-19 Vaccines Continue to Outweigh the Risk of
Vaccination



BENEFITS OF MRNA COVID-19 VACCINES CONTINUE TO OUTWEIGH THE RISK OF VACCINATION


Published Date: 27 Jun 2021

1.  The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has been
made aware of an open letter on social media attributed to group of
doctors, including one cardiologist, calling for a halt in the COVID-19
vaccination of our youths, given reports of the US Centres for Diseases
Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) investigations into the death of a
13-year-old male after being vaccinated with the second dose of an mRNA
vaccine. The social media post indicated that the 13-year-old male from
the US had died from heart failure, although no cause of death has been
made public and the case is currently under investigation by the US
authorities. The post also highlighted the recent international reports
of the association between myocarditis and dose 2 of the mRNA vaccines
in young men.



2.  The use of safe and efficacious COVID-19 vaccines in Singapore
is of paramount concern and the Expert Committee is closely monitoring
local and international data to ensure its recommendations are up to
date. The Expert Committee had on 11 June 2021 highlighted the
possibility of a small risk of myocarditis and pericarditis associated
with the second dose of the mRNA vaccines, and the assessment after our
review is that the benefits of receiving the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines
continue to outweigh the risks of vaccination. Data on myocarditis and
pericarditis has not changed since, and the Expert Committee’s
assessment remains the same.



3.  The data reported from the US indicates that the cases of
myocarditis following mRNA vaccinations are rare. In addition, among the
small number of cases, almost all had resolved with minimal medical
intervention. Professional medical associations in the US, including the
American College of Paediatrics and the American Heart Association in
the US have continued to strongly encourage vaccination in everyone aged
12 years and older.



4.  The Expert Committee continues to recommend the use of the mRNA
COVID-19 vaccines for young men. However, as a precaution, we also
recommend that vaccinated persons, in particular adolescents and younger
men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after their
second dose. During this time, they should seek medical attention
promptly if they develop chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal
heartbeats. The Expert Committee notes that the Ministry of Health had
also issued guidance to all doctors to properly advise patients on the
care they receive.



5.  EC19V will continue to monitor the local and international data
and will continue to review its recommendations as needed.





EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

27 JUNE 2021
