Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Fiji and Israel



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM FIJI AND ISRAEL


Published Date: 14 Jun 2021

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce regularly reviews Singapore’s border
measures to manage the risk of importation from travellers and onward
local transmission, taking into account the current situation in their
source countries/ regions, and will be updating our border measures for
travellers from Fiji and Israel.

TRAVELLERS FROM FIJI TO SERVE 21-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES

2.   We had previously announced that all travellers from Fiji are
subject to a 21-day Stay-Home Notice (SHN) consisting of 14-day SHN at
dedicated SHN facilities and an additional 7 days at a place of
residence or self-sourced accommodation.

3.   Given the worsening situation in Fiji, we will be tightening border
measures for travellers from Fiji. With immediate effect, all travellers
entering Singapore who have travel history in the past 21 days to Fiji
will be required to serve a 21-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities.

TRAVELLERS FROM ISRAEL TO SERVE 14-DAY SHN AT DEDICATED SHN FACILITIES
AND 7 DAYS AT THEIR PLACE OF RESIDENCE

4.   Travellers who have not completed their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities by 16 JUNE 2021, 2359 HOURS [1], will be required to serve
the additional 7-days at their current dedicated SHN facility. These
travellers will be contacted regarding the additional costs to be paid.

5.    Travellers who are currently serving their SHN at a place of
residence or self-sourced accommodation will be required to complete
their 21-day SHN at their current location to minimise movement and risk
of transmission.

6.    We had previously announced that all travellers from Israel are
subject to a 21-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities

7.    Given the improving situation in Israel, we will adopt a
risk-based approach and travellers from Israel who have remained in
Israel in the last 21 days before arrival in Singapore from 16 JUN 2021,
2359 HOURS, will be subject to a 21-day SHN consisting of 14-day SHN at
dedicated SHN facilities and an additional 7 days at a place of
residence or self-sourced accommodation.

8.    All travellers serving 21-day SHN will undergo COVID-19 polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) tests on-arrival [2], on Day 14 of their SHN, and
before the end of their 21-day SHN period.

9.   As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Travellers who complete their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities
before 16 June 2021, 2359 hours can serve the additional 7-days SHN at a
place of residence.

[2] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
