Update On Hospitals’ Capacity and Manpower Situation In Managing the
Covid-19 Surge



UPDATE ON HOSPITALS’ CAPACITY AND MANPOWER SITUATION IN MANAGING THE COVID-19 SURGE


Published Date: 08 Oct 2021

The Ministry of Health (MOH) continues to support our hospitals to
expand bed and manpower capacity and to stand up more COVID-19 Treatment
Facilities (CTFs), in order to handle the larger number of community
cases. This will allow us to stay on course in the Stabilisation Phase
to achieve COVID-19 resiliency as a nation.
2. Community infections have been around 3,000 a day for the past few
days.  The doubling time has slowed, from 6 to 8 days three weeks ago to
about 10 to 12 days now. Nevertheless, the large daily numbers have
placed significant strain on our healthcare system. Our healthcare
workers – who have now been stretched for almost two years – are bearing
the brunt of the burden. If not for our high vaccination rates, the
workload of our healthcare workers would have been many times heavier.
UPDATE ON THE HOSPITAL SITUATION
3. The majority of COVID-19 patients (98.4%) continue to be asymptomatic
or report mild symptoms. Only a small percentage require oxygen
supplementation in a hospital (1.3%) or intensive care unit (ICU) care
(0.1%). Currently, around 7% of COVID-19 patients are admitted into
hospitals because of more severe symptoms or pre-existing medical risks
which require close observation. As a result, about 20% of hospital beds
in acute and community public hospitals are taken up by COVID-19
patients.
4. ICU beds are disproportionately occupied by seniors 60 years and
older who are unvaccinated or only partially vaccinated. They represent
1.5% of our total population, but currently account for two-thirds of
the patients requiring ICU care.  The occupancy of critically ill cases
in ICU was 23.5% yesterday.

5. The occupancy for COVID-19 isolation beds has risen from 62% in July
2021 to 85% for October 2021, despite our efforts to set aside more
beds. Over the past three months, the number of patients seeking medical
attention at the Emergency Departments (EDs) after testing positive for
COVID-19 has increased by eight times. Many of them were admitted,
mostly for precautionary observation.
6. Consequently, the waiting time at public hospitals from the EDs to
admission for non-COVID patients has increased by 34% from July 2021 to
September 2021. This is in part due to the lower number of beds now
available for non-COVID patients.
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO RAMP UP BED CAPACITY AND HEALTHCARE MANPOWER
7. To cope with the increase in cases, MOH has been proactively working
with public, community and private hospitals to set aside more beds for
COVID-19 patients. The number of COVID-19 beds has increased from 900 to
2,500 over the last three months. Of these, about 170 are ICU beds, and
another 100 can be stood up to handle ICU cases at short notice. At the
same time, hospitals have been asked to prioritise resources for
COVID-19 patients by reducing less urgent surgeries and appointments.
Our hospitals have thus cut down on non-urgent and non-life threatening
care, deferring about 20% of their total regular load, to alleviate the
pressure on their capacity and manpower.
8. A key resource constraint we now face is our healthcare manpower. Our
public healthcare institutions and private healthcare providers have
redeployed existing staff and recruited additional short-term manpower
to ramp-up beds. We are also bringing in more manpower by reaching out
to individuals registered with the Singapore Healthcare Corps, including
both healthcare professionals and laypersons. We have also approached
nurses who are registered with the Singapore Nursing Board but who are
currently not in active practice.
9. The response has been encouraging. About 900 individuals of all ages
have stepped forward in response to our call to duty. We are
progressively referring them to the public hospitals to match them with
suitable roles, based on the institution’s needs and the individual’s
experience and availability. The possible deployments vary across
institutions and care settings, and include being deployed to the
additional COVID-19 facilities that we have stood up, such as the CTFs.
10. We thank all who have signed up. Those who are interested can visit
go.gov.sg/shc-covidops to contribute to our nation’s fight against
COVID-19.
ENSURING THE LONG TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF THE HEALTHCARE SYSTEM
11. Given our high vaccination rates of over 83% who have now completed
their primary series, and with over 98% of COVID-19 infected individuals
recovering with no or mild symptoms, home recovery is a safe and
suitable model to right-site the care management of most COVID-19 cases.
Therefore the Home Recovery Programme (HRP) has become the default care
management protocol for many patients.
12. However, the continued rise in cases will most likely mean a
correspondingly growing number of infected persons, especially among the
vulnerable elderly who will need some level of hospital or CTF care. To
make best use of our hospital facilities and beds, we have been
admitting those who are stable but require closer monitoring (because of
their advanced age or underlying medical conditions) to CTFs where their
care and close monitoring needs will be better met.
13. We have stood up five CTFs over the past two weeks; Bright Vision
Hospital, NTUC Health Nursing Home (Tampines), Connect@Changi, Oasia
Hotel@Novena and part of Yishun Community Hospital. Together, the five
CTFs currently have over 1,200 beds. Private operators have been
commissioned to run some of the CTFs or ramp up their existing
infrastructure to be CTFs. We are on track to add on 2,500 more beds by
the end of the month, bringing our total CTF capacity to 3,700 beds.
14. As MOH continues to adjust our protocols and further strengthen our
support for those on HRP, we strongly urge those who have non-emergency
conditions to avoid seeking treatment at the hospitals and to consult
their own family doctor or General Practitioner (GP) instead. Those who
are asymptomatic but are concerned they may be infected with COVID-19
can perform their own ART self-test, and self-isolate for 72 hours if
their ART test result is positive. This allows those with more severe
illnesses and who are in need of emergency care to be attended to
quickly and helps to preserve our hospital capacity for those who truly
need acute hospital care.
CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO PROVIDING APPROPRIATE MEDICAL CARE TO PATIENTS
15. We urge Singaporeans to play your part to protect the healthcare
system and help lighten the burden now placed on our healthcare workers.
All of us need to be socially responsible to take care of ourselves and
others around us through vaccination, regular testing and adherence to
isolation protocols where needed. Continued adherence to our Safe
Management Measures will also dampen the rate of transmission and keep
the number of new cases at a manageable level. We urge those who are
eligible for their booster vaccination dose to get it as soon as they
become eligible.
16. We assure all Singaporeans that everyone who requires medical care,
whether for COVID-19 or other conditions, will continue to receive
appropriate care even as we do our best to overcome the challenges
arising from this current wave of COVID-19 infections.
