Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Vietnam, New South Wales
(australia), and Business Travel Pass Scheme



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM VIETNAM, NEW SOUTH WALES (AUSTRALIA), AND BUSINESS TRAVEL PASS SCHEME


Published Date: 09 Feb 2021

      The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation. We will tighten our border measures for
travellers from Vietnam, given the increase in the number of COVID-19
cases in Vietnam. At the same time, with the improvement in the COVID-19
situation in New South Wales (NSW), Australia, we will adjust our border
measures for travellers from NSW, Australia. In addition, to minimise
the risk of potential incubating cases leaking into the community for
travellers, we will tighten border measures for the Business Travel Pass
scheme.

TRAVELLERS FROM VIETNAM TO SERVE 14-DAY SHN AT SUITABLE PLACE OF
RESIDENCE

2.    We had earlier announced that travellers from Vietnam will be
allowed to go about their activities in Singapore, without a need to
serve Stay-Home Notice (SHN), if their on-arrival COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) test results are negative.

3.    Given the increased cases observed in Vietnam, we will be
tightening border control measures for travellers with travel history to
Vietnam. From 12 FEBRUARY 2021, 2359 HOURS:

a)   Singapore Citizens (SCs), Permanent Residents (PRs) and Long-Term
Pass holders entering Singapore with travel history to Vietnam within
the last 14 days before departure for Singapore, will be subject to an
on-arrival COVID-19 PCR test, 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities,
and a PCR test before the end of the SHN period.

b)   Short-term travellers holding an Air Travel Pass (ATP) with travel
history to Vietnam within the last 14 days before departure for
Singapore, will not be allowed to enter Singapore.

c)   All travellers who are not SCs or PRs will need to take a COVID-19
PCR test within 72 hours before departure. These travellers will still
be required to undergo an On-Arrival Test (OAT) and serve their SHN upon
arrival and be tested at the end of SHN.

4.   Travellers from Vietnam are allowed to opt out of dedicated SHN
facilities and serve their 14-day SHN at their place of residence, if
they fulfil the following criteria:
a)   Travelled to no other country/region than above-mentioned
country/region [1], in the last consecutive 14 days prior to entry; and
b)  Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential address)
alone, or only with household members who are also persons serving SHN
with the same travel history and duration of SHN.

The COVID-19 tests will continue to be administered before the end of
the SHN.

TRAVELLERS FROM NSW, AUSTRALIA SUBJECT TO AN ON-ARRIVAL TEST IN LIEU OF
7D SHN

5.   Since 23 December 2020, 2359 hours, SCs, PRs and Long-Term Pass
holders entering Singapore with travel history to NSW, Australia within
the last 14 days before departure for Singapore, have been subjected to
a 7-day SHN at their place of residence with a COVID-19 PCR test before
the end of their SHN period. Short-term visitors holding an ATP with
travel history to NSW, Australia within the last 14 days before
departure for Singapore have not been allowed to enter Singapore.

6.   The COVID-19 situation in NSW, Australia has since improved, with
no local community cases recorded over the last 21 days. Given this, we
will adjust our border control measures for travellers with travel
history to NSW, Australia. From 10 FEBRUARY 2021, 2359 HOURS, SCs, PRs
and Long-Term Pass holders returning from NSW, Australia will undergo a
COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport in lieu of a 7-day SHN,
and if the result is negative, they will be allowed to go about their
activities in Singapore.
7.   Short-term visitors travelling from NSW, Australia can also apply
for an ATP for entry into Singapore on or after 16 FEBRUARY 2021 [2].
They will undergo a COVID-19 PCR test upon arrival at the airport in
lieu of a 7-day SHN, and if the result is negative, they will be allowed
to go about their activities in Singapore.

REVISED BORDER MEASURES FOR THE BTP SCHEME
8.   The Business Travel Pass (BTP) scheme was introduced in June 2020
to facilitate essential business travel for senior executives based in
Singapore with regional or international responsibilities who need to
travel regularly for work.

9.    BTP travellers are required to abide by a strict controlled
itinerary when travelling. Upon return, BTP travellers will undergo an
on-arrival COVID-19 PCR test in lieu of the SHN and are required to be
isolated in a single location until they obtain a negative result for
their OAT. In addition, travellers are required to use TraceTogether,
avoid all forms of public transport within 14 days of return, comply
with safe management measures at their workplace and abide by all other
prevailing measures applicable to local residents.
10.   As an added precautionary measure, travellers on this scheme are
now required to undergo COVID-19 PCR Tests on DAY 3, DAY 7 AND DAY 14 of
their return. An additional serology test will also be required on Day
3. These enhanced testing requirements serve to minimise the risk of
potential incubating cases leaking into the community. Travellers are
also to avoid events with more than 8 attendees within 14 days of
returning to Singapore.

11.   As compliance to the border measures in this scheme is crucial to
safeguarding public health and helping to curb potential transmission of
COVID-19 to the community, BTP holders must comply with the border
measures in this scheme or risk having their BTPs revoked.

12.   We will continue to carefully monitor the global situation and the
public health outcomes from this scheme in order to strike a calibrated
balance between the safety of the local community and resuming business
travel in support of our overall economic recovery.

REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES

13.   As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry,
including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, tests and
treatment.

14.   All travellers are reminded to accurately declare their travel
history. Strict enforcement actions will be taken against false
declarations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
9 FEBRUARY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Including the following countries/regions: Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Fiji Hong Kong, Macao, Mainland China, New Zealand Sri
Lanka, Taiwan and Thailand (correct as of 9 February 2021).

[2] Visitors can apply for the single-entry ATP, at no charge, between
seven and thirty calendar days prior to their intended date of entry
into Singapore.
