Suspension of Hooi Kee Eating House (190 Clemenceau Avenue, #01-19/20,
Singapore Shopping Centre) Lifted After Meeting Required Standards



SUSPENSION OF HOOI KEE EATING HOUSE (190 CLEMENCEAU AVENUE, #01-19/20, SINGAPORE SHOPPING CENTRE) LIFTED AFTER MEETING REQUIRED STANDARDS


Published Date: 18 Mar 2021

The Singapore Food Agency (SFA) has lifted the suspension of Hooi Kee
Eating House’s (located at 190 Clemenceau Avenue, #01-19/20, Singapore
Shopping Centre) food business operations today. As the licensee has
implemented the required measures as stipulated by SFA, operations can
be resumed.



The Ministry of Health (MOH) and SFA had received reports of a cluster
of two typhoid fever cases who were reported to have symptoms including
fever, headache, diarrhoea and cough, after consuming food prepared by
Hooi Kee Eating House on several occasions from 2 January to 18 January
2021. Both cases were hospitalised, and they have since been discharged.



To protect consumers from further public health risks, the food business
operations of Hooi Kee Eating House was suspended by SFA from 11
February 2021 to 18 March 2021.



No significant hygiene lapses were detected during a joint investigation
of their premises by MOH and SFA on 11 February 2021. There have also
been no further notifications of typhoid fever cases linked to Hooi Kee
Eating House.



MEASURES TAKEN BY HOOI KEE EATING HOUSE (190 CLEMENCEAU AVENUE,
#01-19/20, SINGAPORE SHOPPING CENTRE)



During the suspension period, Hooi Kee Eating House has complied with
measures stipulated by SFA. The licensee has disposed all ready-to-eat
food, thawed food and perishable food items, and also cleaned and
sanitised their premises, including their equipment and utensils.



Food handlers who will be involved in food preparation have since
re-attended and passed the Basic Food Hygiene course. The Food Hygiene
Officer* (FHO) for Hooi Kee Eating House has also undergone retraining
and passed the WSQ Conduct Food and Beverage Hygiene Audit course.



CONTINUING SURVEILLANCE



Following the lifting of suspension, SFA will continue to place Hooi Kee
Eating House under close surveillance to ensure that it adheres to food
safety requirements.



PUBLIC ADVISORY



To prevent the spread of disease and protect oneself from acquiring
infections, individuals should practise good personal hygiene at all
times. These include:

•  Washing hands with soap and water before eating and after going
to the toilet;

•  Covering mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing,
and throwing the tissue away into a bin immediately; and

•  Not sharing food/drinks, eating utensils, toothbrushes or towels
with others.



In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food hygiene at all
eating establishments, we would also like to advise members of the
public who come across poor hygiene practices in food establishments not
to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via the online feedback
form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our follow-up
investigations.


SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 MARCH 2021

* Under the enhanced Food Hygiene Officer (FHO) scheme announced in
December 2018, if the licence of a food establishment is suspended, all
its Food Hygiene Officers are required to re-attend the WSQ Conduct Food
and Beverage Hygiene Audit course, and the premises must have a trained
FHO before it resumes operations.
