Amendments to Dental Registration Act



AMENDMENTS TO DENTAL REGISTRATION ACT


Published Date: 02 Aug 2021

         The Ministry of Health (MOH), through the Singapore Dental
Council (SDC), will introduce new measures to ensure the continued high
quality of foreign-trained dental graduates seeking to practise in
Singapore.
2.      The new measures are being introduced as the SDC had observed a
high degree of variability in overseas clinical practices and the dental
curriculum of overseas universities. To ensure that the quality and
competencies of foreign-trained dental graduates who are eligible to
register and practise in Singapore remain high, the standards of the
mandatory Qualifying Examination (QE) will be benchmarked to the
final-year dental professional examination taken by graduates of the
National University of Singapore’s Faculty of Dentistry.
QUALIFYING EXAMINATION
3.    Presently, foreign-trained dental graduates with dentistry degrees
listed in the Schedule of the Dental Registration Act (DRA) can apply
for conditional registration to practise in Singapore as long as they
fulfill the requirement of securing employment with a local dental
clinic or healthcare institution, subject to other requirements under
the DRA. Foreign-trained dental graduates with basic dental
qualifications not listed in the Schedule are similarly required to
secure employment with a local dental clinic or healthcare institution.
In addition, for this latter group, the SDC also mandates that they pass
an examination to demonstrate the requisite knowledge and skills
necessary for conditional registration as a dentist.
4.       From 2029, foreign-trained dentists are required to demonstrate
that they have the requisite clinical knowledge and procedural skills to
practise dentistry in Singapore by taking and passing a QE, before they
are eligible for conditional registration. Passing the QE will grant
eligibility for conditional registration, the usual route by which most
foreign-trained dental graduates are first registered in Singapore. The
Dental Registration (Amendment) Bill passed in Parliament today will
give effect to this requirement, irrespective of the graduate’s
nationality.
5.      The new QE requirement will be effective from 1 January 2029.
This means that students who are currently enrolled in, or have secured
places in dentistry degree programmes and would graduate before 1
January 2029, as well as foreign-trained dental graduates who already
hold dental qualifications will not be affected by this change. They
will be considered for conditional registration if they fulfil the
requirements under the current DRA and until the measures takes effect
from 1 January 2029.

REVISION OF REGISTRABLE OVERSEAS BASIC DENTAL QUALIFICATIONS

6.      The list of dentistry degrees in the Schedule to the DRA will be
revised. Holders of dentistry degreesunder the revised list will be
automatically eligible to take the QE following the amendments to the
DRA, whereas holders of qualifications not under the revised list will
have to apply for permission to take the QE. The revision to the
Schedule to the DRA will be done through subsidiary legislation.
7.      In line with the objective of ensuring the continued high
quality of foreign-trained dental graduates, the SDC has reviewed the
Schedule and will reduce the number of overseas dental schools and
universities in the Schedule from the current 89 to 62. Those to be
removed are schools from which the SDC had received no applications for
registration over the past 12 years.
8.      The SDC will make available the revised Schedule by end 2021.
The Schedule will come into effect in 2029. Students who have secured
places, or are enrolled in the affected overseas dental schools or
universities will not be impacted. They will still be able to apply to
take the QE, and their applications will be considered on a case-by-case
basis. The revised Schedule will apply to students who graduate from
their studies on or after 1 January 2029.
9.      MOH and SDC will continue to review the regulatory policies and
practices in place to ensure high standards of professional competence
by all registered dental practitioners.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
2 AUGUST 2021
