Updated Pre-departure Testing Requirements



UPDATED PRE-DEPARTURE TESTING REQUIREMENTS


Published Date: 26 May 2021

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the global
COVID-19 situation, and regularly reviews Singapore’s border measures.
In recent weeks, the global situation has worsened, and we have observed
the emergence of new and potentially more infectious variants. To manage
the risk of imported cases and onward transmission within our community,
we will be updating our pre-departure testing requirements.
2.  Since November 2020, we have required all long-term pass holders
and short-term visitors entering Singapore to present a valid negative
COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test taken within 72 hours
before their departure for Singapore. We had not made this a requirement
for Singapore Citizens (SCs) and Singapore Permanent Residents (PRs) at
that time, as we did not want to make it difficult for them to return
home quickly, should they be caught unprepared by the rapidly
deteriorating pandemic conditions abroad. Upon arrival, SCs and PRs
would go through an on-arrival PCR test before we put them up at a
dedicated Stay-Home Notice (SHN) facility.
3.       We have put in place advisories on overseas travel for some
time now, and SCs and PRs abroad would have had more time to manage the
risks of COVID-19 in the countries that they are in. Therefore from 29
MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, WE WILL EXTEND THE PRE-DEPARTURE TESTING
REQUIREMENT TO ALL SINGAPORE CITIZENS AND PERMANENT RESIDENTS. ALL
TRAVELLERS ENTERING OR TRANSITING THROUGH SINGAPORE (INCLUDING SCS AND
PRS), except for those who have stayed in lower-risk countries/regions
[1] throughout the last 21 days before departure for Singapore, will
need to present a valid negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours
before departure for Singapore. Only then will they be allowed to board
their flight or ferry to Singapore [2]. All travellers will also be
required to present their valid COVID-19 PCR test result at the air, sea
and land checkpoints when they arrive in Singapore.
4.    Travellers who arrive in Singapore without a valid negative test
result may be denied entry into Singapore. PRs and long-term pass
holders who fail to comply with the new requirement may have their
permit or pass cancelled.
5.    Travellers who test positive on their COVID-19 PCR test should
seek appropriate medical care and ensure that they have fully recovered
and are non-infectious before travelling to Singapore. Singaporeans who
test positive for COVID-19 while overseas and require urgent medical
care in Singapore can still return to Singapore via a medevac flight or
other equivalent forms of conveyance.
6.     As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] This currently applies to travellers from Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Mainland China, New Zealand, Hong Kong and Macao. Travellers
from lower-risk countries/regions are either required to take a COVID-19
test upon arrival in lieu of a SHN, or required to serve a 7-day SHN at
their place of residence with a COVID-19 test administered at the end of
their SHN.

[2] Cargo drivers and accompanying personnel transporting goods between
Singapore and Malaysia will continue to be subjected to an on-arrival
Antigen Rapid Test at the Singapore Tuas and Woodlands Checkpoints, and
only be allowed to enter Singapore if they receive a negative result.
They will not be required to take a pre-departure PCR test.
