Statement On Cybersecurity Incident At Eye & Retina Surgeons



STATEMENT ON CYBERSECURITY INCIDENT AT EYE & RETINA SURGEONS


Published Date: 25 Aug 2021

The Ministry of Health (MOH) was informed on 16 August 2021 that Eye &
Retina Surgeons (ERS), a specialist medical clinic, was the target of a
ransomware attack on 6 August 2021. The incident affected its clinic
server and clinic management system which managed more than 73,000
patients. The clinic’s compromised IT systems are not connected to MOH’s
IT systems, such as the National Electronic Health Record, and there
have been no similar cyberattacks on MOH’s IT systems.
2. ERS made a Police report on 13 August 2021. The incident was also
reported to the Personal Data Protection Commission and Singapore
Computer Emergency Response Team for further investigations. Upon
notification, MOH had requested ERS to investigate the incident, carry
out a thorough review of its systems and work with the Cyber Security
Agency to take immediate mitigating actions to strengthen its cyber
defence.
3. The Government takes a serious view of any cyberattack, illegal
access of data or action that compromises the integrity, confidentiality
and availability of data and IT systems in Singapore. Section 12(1) of
the Private Hospitals and Medical Clinics Regulations states that
licensees shall implement adequate safeguards (whether administrative,
technical or physical) to protect medical records against accidental or
unlawful loss, modification or destruction, or unauthorised access,
disclosure, copying, use or modification, as well as to periodically
monitor and evaluate such safeguards in place to ensure that they are
effective and being complied with by the persons involved in handling
medical records.
4. MOH had also issued a set of Healthcare Cybersecurity Essentials
guidelines in August 2021 to remind all licensees to establish and
constantly review their security safeguards, implement new measures as
necessary and adopt best practices to secure their endpoints and IT
systems. Following this incident, MOH will be reminding all its licensed
healthcare institutions to remain vigilant, strengthen their
cybersecurity posture, and ensure the security and integrity of their IT
assets, systems, and patient data. It is only through the disciplined
maintenance of a safe and secure data and IT system that healthcare
professionals will be able to deliver accurate and appropriate care, and
uphold patient safety.
