Protecting the Vulnerable, Securing Our Future



PROTECTING THE VULNERABLE, SECURING OUR FUTURE


Published Date: 09 Oct 2021

       Singapore entered the Stabilisation Phase on 27 September 2021 to
slow down the rate of transmission and protect our healthcare system. We
have used this time to do several things. We have built up COVID-19
Treatment Facilities to complement our hospital and community care
facilities. We have also bolstered manpower, employed technology, and
streamlined processes for the Home Recovery Programme (HRP), which
allows the majority of individuals with mild or no symptoms to recover
safely in their own homes.



2. We thank all Singapore residents for reducing their level
of activity and social interactions in the past two weeks. Your efforts
have helped to slow down the rise in daily cases. However, the present
wave of infection has not crested, and we must be prepared for cases to
continue to increase and remain high for some time.



3. We will ride this wave while ensuring that our healthcare
system is not overwhelmed. Most vaccinated persons who catch the virus
have only mild or no symptoms. Children aged 12 and below generally have
mild or no symptoms as well, even though they are unvaccinated. However,
for seniors who are unvaccinated, they are at great risk of falling very
sick if infected. Although this group accounts for 1.5% of our
population, they account for two-thirds of the individuals who need ICU
care or have died.



4. We will therefore need to expand our
vaccination-differentiated safe management measures to protect the
unvaccinated. We will also simplify our testing protocols to make these
easier to understand and adhere to. We will extend booster vaccinations
to healthcare and frontline workers, and persons in institutionalised
settings, followed by all individuals aged 30 and above, to ensure
continued high levels of COVID-19 immunity in the population.



UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION



5. The vast majority (98.8%) of cases continue to have mild
or no symptoms. This is due to our high vaccination coverage, with 83%
of the population having now completed their 2-dose regimen. Of the 423
cases with severe illness in the last two weeks, a disproportionate
proportion (53.9%) were unvaccinated, and the rest were vaccinated
individuals with co-morbidities.



6. The number of persons requiring ICU is continuing to rise
at the same rate as our overall case numbers, albeit with a lag. We have
had 51 new cases in ICU over the past two weeks, as compared to 32 over
the preceding two weeks. Although we have increased our hospital
capacity, bed occupancy rates are rising, and our healthcare manpower
has been stretched.



HOME RECOVERY PROGRAMME



Extending the enrolment criteria



7. Since the start of the HRP on 15 September 2021, more
than 19,000 individuals have been recovering at home, of which more than
8,000 have fully recovered and been discharged. As our population has
become more familiar with the HRP, and our healthcare professionals have
become more experienced in handling the medical needs of those on HRP,
it is timely to extend the HRP to a wider range of individuals,
especially for those with mild or no symptoms. This will allow us to
better prioritise healthcare resources in our hospitals to take care of
the severely ill or vulnerable patients, without compromising care to
those who may be younger with milder or no symptoms.



8. We will extend home recovery to unvaccinated persons aged
12 to 49 years as the severity of illness for such younger and
unvaccinated individuals is low, and it is safe for them to recover at
home. Given the clinical observations to-date of vaccinated infected
persons aged 70 to 79 years, and the fall risks associated with such
elderly persons in an unfamiliar environment, it will also be safer for
them to recover in the familiar surroundings of their home¹. However, as
a precaution, individuals from both groups would be assigned to a
healthcare provider and should monitor their health closely, including
their oxygen level, during the isolation period and consult the
healthcare provider early should there be any significant deterioration
in their health.



9. We will also extend default home recovery to children
aged 5 to 11 years old, as we found that COVID-19 is not a serious
illness for the vast majority of them. Furthermore, parents have often
requested that children be allowed to recover at home, where there are
caregivers from the family.  As for children aged 1 to 4, we will
continue to extend home recovery to them provided that they are first
clinically assessed at the hospitals to be suitable for home recovery.



10. The combined outcome of these changes is that FROM 10
OCTOBER 2021, WE WILL MAKE HRP² THE DEFAULT CARE ARRANGEMENT FOR
EVERYONE, OTHER THAN FOR THE FOLLOWING PERSONS:

A) PARTIALLY OR UNVACCINATED INDIVIDUALS AGED 50 YEARS AND OLDER;

B) VACCINATED PERSONS 80 YEARS AND OLDER; AND

C) CHILDREN AGED LESS THAN 1 YEAR, AND CHILDREN AGED 1 TO 4 YEARS WHO
HAVE BEEN ASSESSED TO BE CLINICALLY UNSUITABLE FOR HOME RECOVERY.



Please refer to Annex A for more details.



11. Individuals who are on HRP will continue to have 24/7
access to medical support. This may be available through existing
telemedicine providers as well as a strengthened network of medical
support with the Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) or
polyclinics who have come onboard the programme to help provide
continuity of care for their patients. For non-medical assistance,
individuals can reach out to the Home Recovery Buddy Hotline (6874
4939).



Timed discharge from home recovery



12. Evidence has shown that viral loads in infected individuals
will decline and reach undetectable or non-infectious levels with time.
This happens in vaccinated individuals and young children (even if
unvaccinated) earlier than in unvaccinated individuals. Hence, COVID-19
infected individuals enrolled in the HRP will be discharged based on the
time since diagnosis, without the need for further tests.



13. For vaccinated individuals and children aged 12 years and
below, the HRP isolation period will last for 10 days, while the HRP
isolation period for unvaccinated individuals above the age of 12 years
will last for 14 days. Thereafter, they will be provided with an
electronic discharge memo upon the end of their isolation period. For
simplicity, we will remove the Day 7 discharge for vaccinated person
based on a PCR test that is negative or of low viral load.



EXPANSION OF VACCINATION-DIFFERENTIATED SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES (VDS)
COVERAGE

14. Epidemiological investigations have identified food and
beverage (F&B) settings such as hawker centres, retail establishments,
and shopping centres as settings frequently visited by a significant
proportion of COVID-19 positive cases, including those who are
unvaccinated, and later on fell very sick.

15. We already have vaccination-differentiated safe management
measures (VDS) for dining-in at F&B establishments³. TO PROTECT THE
UNVACCINATED INDIVIDUALS AND REDUCE THE STRAIN ON OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM,
WE WILL EXPAND THE VDS FOR ENTRY INTO SHOPPING MALLS, ATTRACTIONS,
HAWKER CENTRES, AND COFFEE SHOPS FROM 13 OCTOBER 2021. ENTERPRISES THAT
ARE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT THE EXPANDED VDS COVERAGE EARLIER ARE STRONGLY
ENCOURAGED TO DO SO. Please refer to Annex B for details.



16. The expanded VDS means that only groups of up to 2 fully
vaccinated persons will be allowed to dine-in at hawker centres and
coffee shops, like all other regular F&B establishments.  Individuals
who do not meet the above criteria can still buy take-away food. The
relevant agencies will provide more details.



17. Similarly, under the expanded VDS coverage, only groups of
up to 2 fully vaccinated persons will be allowed to enter shopping malls
and attractions.



Protecting our vulnerable groups



18. As announced on 7 October 2021⁴, the Ministry of Education
(MOE) will progressively bring Primary 1 to 6 students back to schools
for face-to-face lessons from 11 OCTOBER 2021 (MONDAY) to ensure
physical schooling resumes in a safe manner. This is in line with MOE’s
approach to minimise prolonged Home-based Learning (HBL) where possible,
for the social-emotional well-being of students.



19. In line with the return of students to primary schools,
face-to-face lessons for students aged 12 years and below at tuition and
enrichment centres, and Private Education Institutions (PEIs) may also
resume from 11 October 2021, with strict Safe Management Measures in
place. Nevertheless, centres and PEIs serving students aged 12 and below
are still strongly encouraged to continue conducting lessons online as
much as possible to protect the young.



UPDATES TO TESTING PROTOCOLS



20. The protocols and procedures for testing and isolation have
been developed over the past months and became complex and difficult to
understand.  We will significantly simplify these procedures.  A key
move is to reserve PCR testing mainly for individuals who feel unwell
and have symptoms⁵. Antigen rapid tests (ART) will be used for people
who are well, such as for community testing and for the management of
contacts of COVID-19 cases, so that we can still detect infections early
and are able to exercise precaution to self-isolate early to protect
ourselves and persons around us.



Revised Protocols for Positive Cases



21. The streamlined new protocols, are as follows:

PROTOCOL 1: FOR THOSE WHO ARE UNWELL AND TESTED POSITIVE, THEY SHOULD
SEE A DOCTOR. THEY WILL EITHER BE PLACED ON THE HRP BY DEFAULT, OR IF
THE HOME ENVIRONMENT IS NOT SUITABLE, THEY CAN RECOVER AT THE
APPROPRIATE CARE FACILITIES. They will be isolated for 10 days if they
are fully vaccinated (or are young children aged 12 years or less); or
isolated for 14 days if they are unvaccinated. They will be discharged
after their respective isolation periods without the need for further
tests at the point of discharge.



PROTOCOL 2: FOR THOSE WHO ARE WELL AND TESTED POSITIVE, THEY SHOULD
SELF-ISOLATE AT HOME FOR THE NEXT 72 HOURS. After 72 hours, they can
re-test and if negative, they may exit isolation and resume normal
activities. If they become unwell at any time, they should see a doctor.



22. Previously, we differentiated contacts of COVID-19 cases
into various risk levels and imposed several measures including
Quarantine Orders (QO), Health Risk Alerts (HRA), and Health Risk
Warnings (HRW). There will now be a single approach – A HRW THAT LASTS
SEVEN DAYS FROM THE DAY OF ITS ISSUANCE, THAT IS BASED ON ART
SELF-TESTING. It will comprise the following:

PROTOCOL 3: Upon being notified of the HRW (Day 1), the person should
immediately self-isolate, and test himself with an ART on the day of the
HRW issuance and upload the Day 1 ART result based on the instruction in
the HRW notification.  He can continue with normal activities for the
day if the test is negative. For subsequent days, i.e. Day 2 to 7, the
person should test ART negative on same day before going out. If the
person tests positive on any of these ART tests, he should follow
Protocol 2 above. On Day 7, he must test himself with an ART, and if the
test is negative, there is no further need for tests after that.



Please refer to Annex C for the summary of protocols.



23. These revised protocols will start from 11 OCTOBER 2021.
They mark a shift in emphasis towards personal responsibility and
self-management.



24. For those already in the system and following previous
protocols, we need to make some transitional arrangements.  If you are a
COVID-19 patient, you will serve out the 10-day or 14-day isolation,
depending on your vaccination status. If you are currently on a
quarantine order, you will no longer need an exit PCR test. If you test
yourself with an ART and the result is negative, you may go out for the
day. At the end of Day 7, you may exit quarantine.  In other words, you
can follow Protocol 3.



25. To provide greater support for regular self-testing at
home, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will be conducting another round of
distribution of ART kits from 22 OCTOBER TO 7 DECEMBER 2021, via
SingPost. Each household will receive a package containing 10 ART
self-test kits.



UPDATES TO TRAVEL PROTOCOLS



Changes to border measures



26. As part of our regular review of the COVID-19 situation in
countries/regions and border measures, we have updated the list of
countries in the various categories and made some adjustments to the
categories of some countries/ regions. Details of the updated
country/region classification and their corresponding border measures
may be found in Annex D and would be effective for arrivals from 12
OCTOBER 2021, 2359 HOURS. We will continue to adjust our border measures
as the global situation evolves.



Extending Vaccinated Travel Lanes



27. On 8 September 2021, we launched the Vaccinated Travel
Lanes (VTLs) with BRUNEI and GERMANY to allow entry for fully vaccinated
persons from these countries into Singapore for general travel. With
VTLs, we replaced SHN with a regular testing regime for lower risk
countries. As of 8 October 2021, 2359 hours, of the close to 2,000 VTP
holders who entered Singapore, there have only been two imported
COVID-19 cases. Both were tested COVID-positive on arrival and isolated
immediately. There were no imported cases detected through the post
arrival tests on Days 3 and 7 in Singapore.



28. With the experience gained from the VTLs to Brunei and
Germany, we will be extending the VTLs to eight more Category II
countries/regions, namely CANADA, DENMARK, FRANCE, ITALY, NETHERLANDS,
SPAIN, UNITED KINGDOM, AND THE UNITED STATES for entry into
Singapore FROM 19 OCTOBER 2021. Applications for short-term visitors and
Long-Term Pass Holders will commence on 12 OCTOBER 2021 FOR TRAVEL INTO
SINGAPORE FROM 19 OCTOBER 2021.



29. We will also jointly launch VTLs with the REPUBLIC OF KOREA
(ROK) for travel between our countries FROM 15 NOVEMBER 2021, with
application for the VTP for Short Term Visitors and Long-Term Pass
Holders commencing on 8 November 2021. Returning Singapore Citizens and
Permanent Residents who are vaccinated will not need to apply for the
VTP to travel under the VTLs.



30. We will also be making changes to the VTL testing regime
which will apply to all VTL countries. All travellers entering Singapore
under the VTLs from 19 October 2021 will only be required to present a
valid negative COVID-19 PCR test result taken within 48 hours before
departure to Singapore and undergo an on-arrival PCR test upon arriving
in Singapore. They will not be required to undergo additional PCR tests
on Days 3 and 7 of their stay in Singapore.



31. The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore will provide more
details separately.



EXPANDING THE BOOSTER VACCINATION STRATEGY



32. On 3 October 2021, we commenced the booster programme
for persons aged 50 to 59 years, in addition to those aged 60 years and
above. As of 7 October 2021, almost 372,000 individuals have received
their booster dose. 57% of individuals 50 to 59 years and 72% of seniors
aged 60 years and above who are eligible for their booster dose have
either booked an appointment or already received their booster dose.



33. The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has
further recommended for the following persons to receive a booster dose
of the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) mRNA vaccine from six months
after completing their primary series of vaccinations (please refer to
Annex E for more details):

a. Healthcare and frontline workers,
b. Persons and staff in institutionalised settings, and
c. Persons aged 30 years and above.



34. MOH has accepted EC19V’s recommendations. Our healthcare
and frontline workers are more likely to come into regular contact with
COVID-19 cases in the course of their work and are at greater risk of
infection. Persons and staff in institutionalised settings, such as
prisons and residential care facilities, live in indoor settings of
increased human density which are predisposed to large outbreaks of
COVID-19. Expanding the booster programme to persons aged 30 and above
will also help to raise the overall level of protection in the
population.



35. From 9 OCTOBER 2021, we will start offering booster
vaccinations to healthcare workers, as well as frontline COVID-19
workers who have completed their primary series vaccination regimen
around six months ago. We are also working with various institutions to
progressively roll out booster vaccinations to eligible persons in
institutionalised settings.



36. From 9 OCTOBER 2021, we will also progressively invite
persons aged 30 years and above who have also completed their primary
series vaccination regimen around six months ago to make an appointment
for their booster dose. An SMS with a personalised booking link will be
sent to the mobile number that they had earlier registered for their
first two doses, to book an appointment on www.vaccine.gov.sg. These
individuals may receive their booster dose at any vaccination centre or
participating Public Health Preparedness Clinic (PHPC).



TOWARDS A COVID-19 RESILIENT SINGAPORE



37. We are staying the course to transit towards a COVID-19
resilient nation. We will progressively re-open our society and economy,
and resume travel, which is the lifeblood of our economy. But for now,
the Stabilisation Phase is necessary to protect our healthcare system.



38. We seek everyone’s cooperation to observe all safe
management measures and testing protocols so that we can lower
transmission risks and slow down the pace of community infections.
Everyone needs to be socially responsible to take care of themselves and
minimise unnecessary movement and social interactions. If you have been
exposed to positive cases, please isolate yourself, test yourself
regularly and seek medical treatment if you have any
symptoms. Vaccination boosters will also be a key enabler for us to
protect ourselves and our loved ones, particularly our seniors. Hence,
we urge everyone to be vaccinated when it is offered to you.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

9 OCTOBER 2021

[1] This will commence from 16 October 2021.
[2] Previous eligibility criteria for HRP: (a) fully vaccinated, (b)
aged 12-69 years old, (c) mild or no symptoms, (d) no severe
comorbidities or illnesses, (e) household members do not include elderly
who are more than 80 years old or people in the vulnerable group, such
as pregnant women or those with weakened immune response or multiple
comorbidities and (f) can self-isolate in a room, preferably with an
attached bathroom.
[3] Under the current VDS, groups of up to 2 fully vaccinated persons
are allowed to dine-in. Children aged 12 years and below, recovered
individuals, and unvaccinated individuals with a valid negative
pre-event test (PET) result can be included in the group of 2.
[4] More information on the resumption of face-to-face lessons for
primary schools is available
here: https://www.moe.gov.sg/news/press-releases/20211007-phased-resumption-of-face-to-face-lessons-for-primary-schools-from-11-october
[5] Mild symptoms: Fever, cough, fatigue, new loss of taste or smell,
sore throat, runny nose, muscle aches, diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting;
Severe symptoms: shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, loss of
speech or movement.
