President’s Award for Nurses 2021



PRESIDENT’S AWARD FOR NURSES 2021


Published Date: 14 Jul 2021

        Seven nurses were conferred the President’s Award for Nurses
this year. They received their award from President Halimah Yacob at a
virtual award ceremony this afternoon. This brings the total number of
recipients since the inception of the award in 2000 to 84.
2.     The highest accolade in Singapore’s nursing profession, the
President’s Award for Nurses recognises nurses who have shown sustained
outstanding performance and contributions to patient care delivery,
education, research and administration.
3.     This year’s award recipients include five from acute hospitals
and one from primary care setting, as well as a nursing educator. Of the
seven recipients, two are Advanced Practice Nurses.
4.     The seven recipients are:

-   Dr Huang Fang
    Assistant Director of Nursing, Advanced Practice Nurse, KK Women’s
    and Children’s Hospital
-   Ms Margaret Lee Kwee Hiang
    Chief Nurse, Alexandra Hospital
-   Ms Katherine Leong Shiao Pheng
    Assistant Director of Nursing, Nursing Administration, Advanced
    Practice Nurse, Khoo Teck Puat – National University Children’s
    Medical Institute
    National University Hospital
-   Ms Christina Lim Poh Ying
    Chief Nurse, Sengkang General Hospital
-   Ms Lim Voon Hooi
    Chief Nurse, National Healthcare Group Polyclinics
-   Dr Shefaly Shorey
    Assistant Professor, Alice Lee Centre for Nursing Studies (NUS
    Nursing), Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of
    Singapore
-   Mr Christopher Soh Kok Keng
    Assistant Director of Nursing, Emergency Medicine Department and
    Emergency Department, Tan Tock Seng Hospital

5.     Each awardee received a trophy, a certificate signed by President
Halimah Yacob and a $10,000 cash prize that can be used for their
professional and personal development. More information on the award
recipients is in the Annex.
6.     The national award is open to all registered nurses from
healthcare institutions in the public, private, and community care
sectors, as well as the educational institutions. Nurses are nominated
by their institutions, public or peers, and interviewed by a panel
chaired by Dr Tan Wu Meng, Chairman of Health Government Parliamentary
Committee.
7.     The virtual award ceremony today was held in recognition of both
2021 and 2020 award recipients’ contributions to Singapore’s healthcare.
Due to COVID-19 pandemic, the physical reception for President’s Award
for Nurses had been cancelled last year.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
14 JULY 2021
