Suspension of Meetup @ 352 (kin Hoi) At 6 Holland Close, #01-36; and
Kemono Pte Ltd At 171 Selegie Road Lifted After Meeting Required
Standards



SUSPENSION OF MEETUP @ 352 (KIN HOI) AT 6 HOLLAND CLOSE, #01-36; AND KEMONO PTE LTD AT 171 SELEGIE ROAD LIFTED AFTER MEETING REQUIRED STANDARDS


Published Date: 27 May 2021

          The Singapore Food Agency (SFA) has lifted the suspension of
Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) and Kemono Pte Ltd today. As the licensees have
implemented the required measures as stipulated by SFA, operations can
be resumed.



2         The Ministry of Health (MOH) and SFA had received reports of
gastroenteritis involving 55 people who consumed food prepared by Meetup
@ 352 (Kin Hoi) and Kemono Pte Ltd between 28 March and 19 April 2021.
One of the cases was hospitalised and has since been discharged. The
remaining cases either sought outpatient treatment, self-medicated, or
recovered without treatment.



3         To protect consumers from further public health risks, the
food business operations of Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) was suspended by SFA
from 20 April 2021 to 27 May 2021. SFA also prohibited Kemono Pte Ltd
from preparing and serving all menu items, including online orders, to
Kin Hoi. Kemono Pte Ltd is a business partner of Kin Hoi and provides
food preparation and cooking services for Kin Hoi’s online delivery
orders, in a separate facility from their own food business.

4          Investigations into the cause of the gastroenteritis
incidents are ongoing.



MEASURES TAKEN BY MEETUP @ 352 (KIN HOI) AND KEMONO PTE LTD



5          During the suspension period, Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) and
Kemono Pte Ltd have complied with measures stipulated by SFA. The
licensees have disposed all ready-to-eat food, thawed food and
perishable food items. They have also cleaned and sanitised their
premises, including their equipment and utensils, and rectified lapses
in the food preparation processes.



6          Food handlers involved in food preparation have since
re-attended and passed the Food Safety Course Level 1.



CONTINUING SURVEILLANCE



7          Following the lifting of suspension, SFA will continue to
place Meetup @ 352 (Kin Hoi) and Kemono Pte Ltd under close surveillance
to ensure that they adhere to food safety requirements.



PUBLIC ADVISORY



8          To prevent the spread of disease and protect oneself from
acquiring infections, individuals should practise good personal hygiene
at all times. These include:

• Washing hands with soap and water before eating and after going to the
toilet;

• Covering mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing, and
throwing

the tissue away into a bin immediately; and

• Not sharing food/drinks, eating utensils, toothbrushes or towels with
others.



9          In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
27 MAY 2021
