Update On Tuberculosis Situation In Singapore



UPDATE ON TUBERCULOSIS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 24 Mar 2021

           On World Tuberculosis (TB) Day on 24 March, Singapore joins
the global community in reiterating its commitment to continue the fight
against TB. The World Health Organization’s (WHO) theme for 2021’s World
TB Day is “The Clock is Ticking”, which appeals for global action on the
commitments made by global leaders to end TB.

2.        TB remains a global public health threat. In 2019, there were
more than 10 million cases of active TB globally, with 1.4 million
deaths. In addition, there were almost half a million cases of
multi-drug resistant TB (MDRTB). MDRTB is more difficult to treat and
has lower cure rates, with death rates as high as 30 to 40 percent.

3.         TB is endemic in Singapore and latent TB infection is not
uncommon in our population, with rates of up to 30 per cent in the older
age groups. In 2020, there were 1,370 new cases of active TB among
Singapore residents. This is lower than the 1,398 cases in 2019. The
incidence rate was 33.9 cases per 100,000 population in 2020, compared
to 34.7 cases per 100,000 in 2019. Older age groups and males continue
to make up a significant proportion of the new active TB cases. Please
refer to the Annex for details.

TB SCREENING AND TREATMENT IN SINGAPORE

4.          TB is an air-borne disease, and is transmitted through close
and prolonged exposure to an infectious individual with untreated,
active pulmonary (lung) TB. Not all individuals who are exposed to an
infectious individual will get TB.

5.            TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable. To
ensure early detection and treatment, and to curtail the spread of TB,
the National TB Programme (STEP) carries out contact tracing and
screening of close contacts to ensure that those at risk of infection
are tested and receive appropriate treatment.

6.            Persons diagnosed with active TB will be started on
treatment immediately and placed on medical leave. Once treatment
starts, the person will rapidly become non-infectious and no longer pose
as a source for infection. There is no further risk of exposure in the
workplace or school, and there is therefore no need to for workplaces or
places where a recently diagnosed active TB case has visited to be
closed. Close contacts found to have latent TB infection are not
infectious and can continue their activities as usual.

7.           While there are national control measures in place to
reduce the risk of TB transmission in Singapore, everyone plays an
important role in preventing the spread of TB. Individuals who are
unwell and display symptoms, such as cough, should seek medical
attention early to ensure prompt diagnosis and treatment.

IMPORTANCE OF TREATMENT ADHERENCE

8.           The full course of active TB treatment takes six to nine
months (up to 24 months for drug-resistant TB). If patients do not
adhere strictly to the treatment programme (e.g. taking their medication
on time), there is a higher chance of disease relapse and developing
MDRTB.

9.             Directly Observed Treatment (DOT) remains a pillar of
STEP. It comprises the administration of TB medicines by a trained
healthcare worker to the patient, and is available at all the
polyclinics. STEP manages an outreach DOT programme for patients who are
unable to commute to clinics for their medications due to age or
infirmity.

10.           Support and encouragement from patients’ family members,
friends and co-workers are vital in ensuring that TB patients
successfully complete their treatment. Employers can also play their
part, by granting their employees flexibility during the day to access
DOT. Treatment adherence and completion will not only benefit the
patient, but also protect his family, workplace and community from
infection.

11.           With everyone playing their part, we can ensure TB
patients are treated effectively and reduce community transmission of TB
in Singapore. More information on TB is available at the MOH website or
the HealthHub website.

