Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Continues to Endorse Safety and
Efficacy of Pfizer-biontech Covid-19 Vaccine In Individuals Aged 12 to
15 Years



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION CONTINUES TO ENDORSE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF PFIZER-BIONTECH COVID-19 VACCINE IN INDIVIDUALS AGED 12 TO 15 YEARS


Published Date: 21 May 2021

         The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination recommended that
the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine be used in the respective
population groups, including in adolescents of ages 12 to 15 years
following the Health Sciences Authority's (HSA) announcement on the
approval for the use of the vaccine in this age group under the Pandemic
Special Access Route (PSAR) on 18 May 2021. Our assessment remains that
the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is safe and efficacious for this age group.
There is currently no credible evidence of a inactivated virus vaccine
demonstrating a high vaccine efficacy and safety profile among this age
group. We noted the contents of an Open Letter addressed to parents from
a small group of doctors on vaccines for children. 11 of the 12 have
since retracted their statement.
2.      The Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is currently the only COVID-19
vaccine anywhere in the world that has been authorised for use in
adolescents aged 12 to 15 years. HSA and the Expert Committee had
reviewed the safety and efficacy of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine
based on the clinical trials for individuals in this age group. The
safety profile of the vaccine is consistent with the known safety
profile in the adult population and the standards set for other
registered vaccines used in the immunisation against other diseases.
3.      The Singapore population, including adolescents, continue to
remain at risk of COVID-19 infection, and onward transmission to their
close contacts. This is seen in the recent local cases and outbreaks
involving school-going children who had been infected with COVID-19 and
transmitted to their family members and schoolmates. While the
international experience is that COVID-19 appears milder in the younger
age groups, there remains a risk of complications and long-lasting
symptoms in children and adolescents. The Expert Committee therefore
recommends that with the availability of a safe and efficacious vaccine,
all eligible persons should receive the vaccine to attain as high a
population coverage of COVID-19 vaccination as possible.
4.      COVID-19 vaccines cannot alter your DNA. The Pfizer-BioNTech
COVID-19 vaccine comprises  messenger RNA ("mRNA") that contains the
instructions to enable the vaccine recipient to build a protein
component of the SARS-CoV-2 virus ("spike protein"). The spike protein
does not cause infection, but is recognised by the body's immune system
as foreign. The body then mounts an immune response and produces
antibodies that protects against future infection by the virus. The
vaccine mRNA is broken down by the body rapidly after the spike protein
is built. The mRNA is unable to produce more copies of itself, and
cannot enter the nucleus of the human cells where human genetic material
("DNA") is stored. Since the human genome is made up of DNA, it is not
biologically plausible for the vaccine mRNA to be integrated or to
interfere with the DNA of the vaccine recipient.
5.      Expert Committee chairperson A/Prof Benjamin Ong said, "The
Committee assessed the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine in
individuals aged 12 to 15 years to be safe and effective, after careful
assessment and deliberation of the available clinical data. There is no
inactivated COVID-19 vaccine approved for use in children yet."
6.      With the current administration of more than 200 million doses
of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines worldwide, there is currently
no evidence for rare but serious effects of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19
vaccine beyond anaphylaxis. The Expert Committee and HSA will continue
to monitor and review evidence and information that emerge from further
ongoing studies on long-term safety and efficacy.
7.      Singapore remains at risk of a surge in cases and it is
therefore important that we achieve as comprehensive a coverage of
COVID-19 vaccination as possible across the entire population. We
strongly encourage all persons who are medically eligible to be
vaccinated when the vaccine is made available to them.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
21 MAY 2021
