Female Muslim Staff In Public Healthcare Sector May Wear the Tudung With
Their Uniform



FEMALE MUSLIM STAFF IN PUBLIC HEALTHCARE SECTOR MAY WEAR THE TUDUNG WITH THEIR UNIFORM


Published Date: 29 Aug 2021

     From 1 November 2021, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will revise the
uniform policy in the public healthcare sector to allow female Muslim
staff, including female Muslim nurses, to wear the tudung as an add-on
to their uniforms, if they wish to do so.

2.   The revised policy will be applicable to more than 7,000 female
Muslim uniformed staff across the public healthcare sector, comprising
the public healthcare clusters – SingHealth, National Healthcare Group
and National University Health System – as well as the Health Promotion
Board, Health Sciences Authority, Vanguard Healthcare and Ministry of
Health Holdings.

3.   The tudung will be an add-on to the uniform. This will be permitted
in the revised dress code which the institutions will be issuing.

4.   The dress code will be based on a set of implementation and
clinical guidelines developed by the MOH-appointed Implementation
Steering Committee (ISC) and Clinical Advisory Panel (CAP). The
committees comprise representatives across the public, community care
and private healthcare sectors, the Healthcare Services Employees’ Union
(HSEU), the Muslim Healthcare Professional Association (MHPA), and the
Islamic Religious Council of Singapore (Muis). In preparing the
guidelines, the committees conducted extensive consultation from April
to August this year, with infectious disease experts, HSEU/AUSBE[1],
nursing leaders, Muslim community leaders and healthcare workers across
various professions and religious backgrounds.

5.   Through the extensive consultation, the guidelines have taken
careful and serious consideration of the desire of female Muslim
healthcare workers to wear the tudung, whilst safeguarding and upholding
impartiality of care, occupational safety and health of staff, patient
care standards and infection control requirements, such as when a
personal tudung or long sleeves may and may not be worn.

6.   Dr Benjamin Koh, MOH’s Deputy Secretary (Development) and Chairman
of the ISC said, “We have extensively engaged healthcare workers across
different races and religions on their views and consulted clinical
experts in drawing up the guidelines, taking into account the current
practices for the wearing of tudung in healthcare settings in other
countries. I have confidence in the continued professionalism of
all healthcare workers to uphold their duty of care, and to ensure that
infection control standards continue to remain high.”[page1image8783360]

7.     Non-public entities such as community care organisations and
private healthcare providers are encouraged to take reference from the
revised uniform policy in the public healthcare sector and consider
their organisational context before making a decision. Institutions that
decide to allow staff to wear the tudung should align with the clinical
guidelines as part of infection prevention and occupational safety best
practices.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
29 AUGUST 2021

¹Amalgamated Union of Statutory Board Employees

