Next Steps In Our Transition Towards Covid Resilience



NEXT STEPS IN OUR TRANSITION TOWARDS COVID RESILIENCE


Published Date: 19 Aug 2021

          The local COVID-19 situation has remained stable even as we
eased our community measures on 10 August 2021. This was possible only
because of strong public support and adherence to the safe management
measures, robust and effective testing and tracing, and high vaccination
rates.
LOCAL SITUATION UPDATE
2.        Vaccination continues to be a key part of our efforts to keep
the community situation under control. As of 17 August 2021, 77% of our
population has completed their full regimen/ received two doses of
COVID-19 vaccines, and 82% has received at least one dose. There is
clear evidence that vaccination can significantly reduce severe
illnesses and deaths. Among the infected cases, almost 9% of the
unvaccinated needed intensive care or oxygen supplementation and around
1% were deceased, whereas only 1.3% and 0.1% respectively of the
vaccinated did so. This is a substantial difference in terms of negative
outcomes.
3.        There has been a steady decline in cases since Phase 2
(Heightened Alert) was reintroduced on 22 July 2021. As of 17 August
2021, the number of new local cases has halved from an average of 123
cases per day about two weeks ago, to 63 cases per day in the past week.
For the past two weeks, the number of cases that were isolated before
detection has remained stable at around half of the total cases
detected, while unlinked cases similarly remained stable at around a
quarter of the total cases.
4.             GIVEN THE STABLE SITUATION, WE WILL CONTINUE AS PLANNED
WITH THE SECOND STEP IN THE EASING OF COMMUNITY MEASURES STARTING FROM
19 AUGUST 2021. The easing involves mainly increasing the size of
masked-on events and religious services, and will not have significant
risk impact. Please refer to Annex A for the details¹.
PILOTING HOME ISOLATION AS A CARE MODEL FOR FULLY VACCINATED COVID-19
PATIENTS WITHOUT SEVERE SYMPTOMS
5.        Our high vaccination rates also enable us to review our
treatment and care model for COVID-19 patients. With much more local and
global data showing that fully vaccinated COVID-19 patients have a much
lower risk of developing severe disease, we are piloting a home-centric
care model for the management of COVID-19 patients with mild or no
symptoms, thus requiring minimal supportive care.  However, they need to
have a suitable home setting, where they can be isolated from the rest
of their household.
6.        The Ministry of Health (MOH) will pilot the Home Isolation
model for medically stable COVID-19 patients from 30 AUGUST 2021. We
will start this initiative in a risk-calibrated, phased manner. The
patients and their household members must both be fully vaccinated and
must not belong to any vulnerable groups, such as the elderly or
immunocompromised. This is in line with the recommendations of the World
Health Organization (WHO) and the best practices of other developed
countries. These patients will spend the first few days in a medical
facility, before moving to home isolation. By then, the viral loads of
vaccinated patients would have dropped.
7.         During Home Isolation, the patients and their household
members are required to remain in their place of residence, and this
will be tracked through electronic monitoring and surveillance checks
through phone calls. The patients will be closely monitored for their
health and safety during this time and will be provided with access to
24/7 telemedicine services. They will also be subject to a Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) swab on the ninth day of illness to determine if
they could be discharged from isolation, provided their swab result is
negative or if they carry a very low viral load. All household members
will need to be fully-vaccinated, come under home quarantine, and also
be placed on a daily Antigen Rapid Test (ART) testing regimen for early
detection of potential infection.
8.        We will closely monitor the pilot’s outcomes, and study if
more patients may benefit from this mode of recovery in a safe manner.
OPENING OUR BORDERS CAREFULLY FOR INCOMING TRAVELLERS
9.        On 6 August 2021, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce announced that
border restrictions would be progressively reviewed to facilitate more
travel when conditions allow. Our higher population vaccination rates
now give us the foundation to introduce vaccination-differentiated
border measures for travellers from countries/regions that have
controlled the pandemic well and also vaccinated large parts of their
population.
10.      As a first step, we have reviewed the country/ region
classifications for our border measures. Countries/ regions will be
classified in one of four categories, each with differentiated border
measures, premised on a traveller’s 21-day travel history prior to their
entry into Singapore. If the traveller visits or transits through
countries/ regions in different categories, the most stringent set of
requirements among those countries/ regions will apply. The updated
classification, together with the associated testing requirements, can
be found in Annex B and on the SafeTravel website.

a.    Category I – Travellers from countries/ regions in this category
can enter Singapore without having to serve a Stay-Home Notice (SHN).
They will only be subject to an On-Arrival COVID-19 PCR² and if
negative, will be allowed to go about their activities. This would
include countries/regions such as Mainland China (excluding Jiangsu
province), New Zealand and Taiwan today.

i.     We have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Hong Kong and Macao,
and will also add them to this category from 20 AUGUST 2021, 2359 HOURS.
See Annex C for details.

b.    Category II – Travellers from countries/ regions in this category
will be required to undergo a 7-day SHN, which can be served at their
accommodation of choice. Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and
Long-Term Pass Holders may serve their 7-day SHN at their place of
residence, if conditions are suitable. Currently, only Mainland China
(Jiangsu province) is in this category.

 i.     We have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in AUSTRALIA, CANADA,
AND GERMANY, and will add these countries/ regions to this category from
20 AUGUST 2021, 2359 HOURS. We have also reviewed the COVID-19 situation
in Brunei, and will place them in  this category from 20 AUGUST 2021,
2359 HOURS (see Annex C).

c.     Category III – Unvaccinated travellers from countries/ regions in
this category will be required to undergo a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities. Travellers who are fully vaccinated³ may apply to opt out of
dedicated SHN facilities and serve their 14-day SHN at a suitable
accommodation of their choice, if they fulfil the criteria in Annex D.
Currently, Austria, Italy, Norway, the Republic of Korea and Switzerland
are in this category.

i.     We have reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Belgium, Denmark,
Japan and Luxembourg, and will add these countries/ regions to this
category from 20 August 2021, 2359 hrs.

d.    Category IV – Travellers from all other countries/ regions (except
Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, where entry
is currently not allowed⁴) will be required to undergo a 14-day
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) at dedicated SHN facilities. Travellers will also
be required to comply with the testing regime as indicated in Annex B.

STARTING VACCINATED TRAVEL LANES
11.     Beyond the above framework, we will implement a new Vaccinated
Travel Lane (VTL) to facilitate fully vaccinated persons to travel into
Singapore under reduced border measures.  We will start pilot VTL
arrangements with BRUNEI and GERMANY. In lieu of SHN, these vaccinated
travellers under the VTL will undergo multiple COVID-19 PCR tests,
including a pre-departure PCR test within 48 hours of their scheduled
departure for Singapore, an on-arrival PCR test upon arriving in
Singapore, and two additional PCR tests on Days 3 and 7 of their stay in
Singapore (if they have not left yet).
12.     The number of VTL travellers will be limited by available
flights dedicated to the scheme. VTL travellers must also travel on
non-stop designated flights to Singapore.
13.     Prior to travelling to Singapore, short-term visitors and
Long-Term Pass holders who wish to travel under the VTL will need to
apply for a Vaccinated Travel Pass between 7 and 30 days before their
intended date of entry into Singapore. APPLICATIONS FOR THE VTP WILL
START FROM 1 SEPTEMBER 2021 FOR TRAVEL INTO SINGAPORE FROM 8 SEPTEMBER
2021. Returning Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who are
vaccinated will automatically qualify and will not need to apply for the
VTP in order to travel under the VTL. The Civil Aviation Authority of
Singapore will provide more details.
14.     As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a COVID resilient
nation. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the SafeTravel
website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check the latest
border measures for the associated country or region before entering
Singapore.
RECOGNISING OVERSEAS VACCINATIONS WITH WHO EUL VACCINES FOR
VACCINATION-DIFFERENTIATED SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
15.          Currently, only Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and
Long-Term Pass holders with vaccination records in Singapore’s National
Immunisation Registry are eligible for vaccination-differentiated safe
management measures. All other incoming travellers would have to obtain
a negative pre-event test (PET) by an MOH-approved test provider that
will be valid for a 24 hours, in order to be eligible for
vaccination-differentiated safe management measures.
16.          From 20 AUGUST 2021, 2359 HOURS, the Immigration and
Checkpoints Authority (ICA) will issue a tamper-proof vaccination
sticker (Annex E) to be affixed onto the passport of newly arrived
travellers⁵ who were fully vaccinated overseas with a WHO-Emergency Use
Listing (EUL) vaccine, and who can furnish a valid, English-language
vaccination certificate. These travellers will be eligible for
vaccination-differentiated safe management measures if they produce
their passport with the valid tamper-proof sticker affixed. To obtain
this sticker, travellers should produce their English-language
vaccination certificates to ICA officers at the Singapore immigration
checkpoints upon arrival. By September, the IT systems will also be
enhanced so that travellers, upon verification of their eligible
vaccination status at entry, will also be recognised by the SE Biz App
through their TraceTogether Apps/Tokens to be eligible for
vaccination-differentiated safe management measures without needing to
go through PET.
EMBARKING ON THE NEXT PHASE OF OUR NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME
17.          While a large proportion of our population is now
vaccinated, we are planning ahead to ensure that our population
continues to be well protected from COVID-19 and its new variants as
they arise. The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination has been
reviewing and monitoring the local and overseas data on vaccine boosters
and is developing recommendations on Singapore’s booster strategy.
18.          The Expert Committee is also looking at the need to enhance
the immune response of certain groups of individuals. This includes the
severely immunocompromised who have a weaker immune response to
vaccination despite completing a full vaccination regimen. For this
group, there may be benefits in administering a third dose of the
vaccine for them. The Expert Committee will make its recommendations
shortly.
WORKING TOGETHER TOWARDS COVID RESILIENCE
19.          Our high vaccination coverage has allowed us to ease some
of our community measures and take significant steps towards a new
normal of a COVID resilient nation. Yet, there are some, in particular
our seniors, who can be vaccinated but have not done so.  We urge them
to walk into any of our vaccination centres to get vaccinated, so as to
protect both themselves and their loved ones. It is only together, that
we can emerge safer and stronger.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
19 AUGUST 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] There is no change from what was announced on 6 August 2021.
[2] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
[3] An individual is considered fully vaccinated two weeks after he or
she has received the full regimen of Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty, Moderna
or other WHO EUL vaccines.
[4] Only Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents with travel history
to Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are allowed
entry into Singapore.
[5] These include Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents, Long-Term
Pass Holders (LTPH) and Short-Term Visit Pass holders from all
countries/regions (i.e. Category I, II, III, IV).
