Three New Polyclinics Open In 2021; New Polyclinic In Tiong Bahru to Be
Ready by 2030



THREE NEW POLYCLINICS OPEN IN 2021; NEW POLYCLINIC IN TIONG BAHRU TO BE READY BY 2030


Published Date: 02 Oct 2021

1.     Residents living in the Bukit Panjang, Kallang and Eunos areas
will be able to access a comprehensive range of primary care services,
with the opening of a new polyclinic in each of these areas in the last
quarter of 2021. In addition, residents living in the Tiong Bahru area
can look forward to a new polyclinic. These plans were announced by Mr
Ong Ye Kung, Minister for Health, during his visit to the integrated
Bukit Panjang Polyclinic and Senja Care Home on 2 October 2021, when the
new polyclinic received its first patients and residents.

2.     As our population ages and chronic disease prevalence increases,
we will need to shift our focus to upstream preventive and early disease
management to reduce downstream health complications. The opening of
Bukit Panjang, Kallang and Eunos Polyclinics strengthens our primary
care capacity to provide Singaporeans with greater access to a
comprehensive range of affordable and quality primary care services,
that cater to the different needs of residents, from young families to
seniors. These services include women and child health services, medical
treatment for acute conditions, chronic disease management, allied
health services, as well as radiological, laboratory and pharmacy
services. The three polyclinics are integrated with other healthcare
facilities. The co-location with various healthcare facilities provides
an opportunity for joint programming and collaborations that offer
holistic care and improve health outcomes.

3.     Bukit Panjang Polyclinic (50 Woodlands Road) is operated by the
National University Polyclinics. It is the first polyclinic to be
co-located with a nursing home and a senior care centre. Senja Care Home
and Vanguard Senior Care (Senja) are operated by Vanguard Healthcare,
and collectively offers residential care, day care, community
rehabilitation and physiotherapy services, providing a continuum of care
services for seniors. The eldercare facilities have a capacity of 365
beds and 60 day care places, and started operations in August 2021.

4.     The National Healthcare Group Polyclinics also opened the new
Kallang Polyclinic (701 Serangoon Road) on 2 October 2021, which is
co-located with Kwong Wai Shiu Hospital’s (KWSH) long-term care facility
with a capacity of 128 beds for chronic sick patients. These patients
have advanced and complicated chronic medical conditions requiring
long-term nursing and frequent medical care. KWSH’s long term care
facility will commence operations in early October 2021.

5.     Eunos Polyclinic (1 Chin Cheng Avenue), operated by SingHealth
Polyclinics, is co-located with a senior care centre with 60 day care
places, operated by Methodist Welfare Services and is expected to open
in mid-December 2021.

NEW POLYCLINIC IN TIONG BAHRU

6.     As part of the Ministry of Health’s (MOH) continuous effort to
refresh our polyclinic infrastructure to meet the increasing and
evolving healthcare needs of the residents, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
will be consolidating Bukit Merah and Outram Polyclinics into a larger
new polyclinic in Tiong Bahru by 2030. Residents can look forward to a
new polyclinic that will be more spacious, with elderly-friendly and
accessibility features. The polyclinic will also provide holistic and
seamless primary care services for residents in the region. The existing
Bukit Merah and Outram Polyclinics will continue to serve the residents
until the new polyclinic in Tiong Bahru opens. More details on this new
polyclinic, including its location, will be shared when ready.

7.     Against a backdrop of an ageing population and concomitant
increase in chronic disease prevalence, MOH has been expanding our
polyclinic network to strengthen primary care capacity as we shift our
focus to upstream preventive and early disease management to reduce
downstream health complications. Works on new polyclinics in Sembawang,
Kaki Bukit, Khatib, Serangoon, Tampines North, Tengah, Yew Tee, Bidadari
and Bishan are ongoing.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

2 OCTOBER 2021
