Enhanced Measures for Residential Care Homes



ENHANCED MEASURES FOR RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES


Published Date: 12 Sep 2021

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) has detected an increase in the
number COVID-19 cases recently amongst staff, clients and residents of
aged care facilities, and will enhance measures to protect seniors
residing at residential care homes who are typically frail and more
vulnerable to complications of COVID-19.
2.     In the last two weeks, there were 42 cases across 18 aged care
facilities/providers. With the number of cases expected to continue to
rise in the coming weeks, we need to take further action to protect the
vulnerable seniors in these settings.
3.     As an enhanced measure to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in
residential care homes, ALL IN-PERSON VISITS TO RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES
WILL BE SUSPENDED FROM 13 SEPTEMBER 2021 TO 11 OCTOBER 2021 (BOTH DATES
INCLUSIVE). This temporary suspension of visitation will give us time to
encourage more unvaccinated seniors to get vaccinated, and roll out the
vaccine booster programme for residents of aged care facilities, details
of which were announced by MOH on 10 September 2021.
4.     We will also be strengthening the testing regime for both staff
and residents/clients of aged care facilities, and will use Antigen
Rapid Tests (ART) more frequently, to complement the current
surveillance testing in these settings.
5.     We urge the next-of-kin of unvaccinated seniors in the aged care
facilities to support and encourage their loved ones to be vaccinated.
Unvaccinated seniors may suffer severe illness if infected. It is also
important for vaccinated seniors to receive the booster vaccination when
it is made available, to ensure a continued high level of immunity and
protection from severe disease.
6. We will observe the situation in the coming weeks and will review the
suspension of visitation accordingly. We seek the understanding and
cooperation of all Singaporeans as we make adjustments to protect our
seniors.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
12 SEPTEMBER 2021
