Positive Progress for 16-year-old Who Had An Out-of-hospital Cardiac
Arrest After Covid-19 Vaccination



POSITIVE PROGRESS FOR 16-YEAR-OLD WHO HAD AN OUT-OF-HOSPITAL CARDIAC ARREST AFTER COVID-19 VACCINATION


Published Date: 16 Aug 2021

  The 16-year-old male youth who had an out-of-hospital cardiac
arrest six days after receiving his first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on 27
June 2021, and had required intensive care, is recovering steadily and
currently undergoing inpatient rehabilitation. He is making good
progress and can perform his activities of daily living without
assistance. He will likely be discharged in the coming weeks, but will
likely require outpatient rehabilitation for some time before he can
return to school and resume other activities. The medical team will
continue his treatment and monitor his condition.



2.     Medical investigations have found that the youth had developed
acute severe myocarditis which led to the out-of-hospital cardiac
arrest. The myocarditis was likely a serious adverse event arising from
the COVID-19 vaccine he received, which might have been aggravated by
his strenuous lifting of weights and his high consumption of caffeine
through energy drinks and supplements.



3.    Under the Vaccine Injury Financial Assistance Programme (VIFAP)
provided by the Ministry of Health (MOH), a one-time financial
assistance of $225,000 has been extended to the youth and his family.
The independent clinical panel appointed to assess and adjudicate the
VIFAP application found that while he has made good improvement, because
his condition was severe and critical, he will require treatment and
rehabilitation for some time yet to continue his recovery.



Continue to avoid strenuous physical activity for one week after each
dose



4.     While there is a small increased risk of myocarditis or
pericarditis following the administration of the vaccines, the local
incidence rate remains low at 0.48 per 100,000 doses administered, based
on ongoing pharmacovigilance monitoring by the Health Sciences Authority
(HSA). The majority have responded well to treatment and have recovered
or been discharged well from the hospital.



5.     As a precaution, all vaccine recipients, especially adolescents
and younger men, should avoid strenuous physical activity for one week
following each of their first and second doses of the vaccine.
Individuals should also seek medical attention promptly if they develop
chest pain, shortness of breath or abnormal heartbeats. Individuals who
developed myocarditis from their first dose of the mRNA COVID-19
vaccines should also not receive further doses of it.



6.     Vaccination using the Pandemic Special Access Route
(PSAR)-authorised mRNA COVID-19 vaccines deployed in our National
Vaccination Programme (NVP) thus continues to be recommended for all
eligible persons, including adolescents and younger men, as the
protective benefits from the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines continue to outweigh
the risks of vaccination.



7.     MOH, the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination and HSA will
continue to monitor vaccine-related serious adverse events closely.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

16 AUGUST 2021
