3 New Cases of Locally Transmitted Covid-19 Infection



3 NEW CASES OF LOCALLY TRANSMITTED COVID-19 INFECTION


Published Date: 11 Feb 2021

      As of 11 February 2021, 12pm, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
confirmed and verified that there are 3 new cases of locally transmitted
COVID-19 infection. The cases are in the community, and there are no new
cases in the dormitories. There are 9 imported cases, who had already
been placed on Stay-Home Notice (SHN) upon arrival in Singapore. Amongst
the new cases today, 7 are asymptomatic, and were detected from our
proactive screening and surveillance, while 5 were symptomatic.

SUMMARY OF NEW CASES







BREAKDOWN BY



BREAKDOWN BY



NUMBER OF CASES



ALREADY IN QUARANTINE/ ISOLATION BEFORE DETECTION

DETECTED FROM SURVEILLANCE



SYMPTOMATIC

ASYMPTOMATIC

CASES IN THE COMMUNITY

3



1

2



3

0

CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES

0



0

0



0

0

IMPORTED CASES

9



9

0



2

7

TOTAL

12















2.      Overall, the number of new cases in the community has increased
from 3 cases in the week before to 7 cases in the past week. The number
of unlinked cases in the community has also increased from 2 cases in
the week before to 6 cases in the past week. We will continue to closely
monitor these numbers, as well as the cases detected through our
surveillance programme.
3.      Amongst the 135 confirmed cases reported from 5 February to 11
February, 77 cases have tested positive for their serology tests, 37
have tested negative, and 21 serology test results are pending.

CASE DETAILS

A) CASES IN THE COMMUNITY: 3

There are 3 cases in the community today, of whom 2 are currently
unlinked.

Case 60138

Case 60138 is a 66 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who works
as a stall owner of a sundry shop at Chinatown Complex (335 Smith
Street).

He developed a dry cough on 28 January and anosmia on 9 February but did
not seek medical attention. He was subsequently detected from our
community surveillance testing of stallholders and shop owners in
Chinatown on 9 February. His test result came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 10 February, and he was conveyed in an ambulance to the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). His serology test result
has come back negative, indicating that this is likely a current
infection.

Case 60150

Case 60150 is a 32 year-old male Singaporean who is the son of Case
60138 and works part-time as a waiter at Swensen’s located at Changi
Airport Terminal 3. He was last at work on 8 February.

He developed a runny nose on 8 February after work but did not seek
medical treatment. As he had been identified as a close contact of Case
60138, he was contacted by MOH on 10 February and placed on quarantine.
He reported his symptoms and was conveyed to NCID where he was tested
for COVID-19 on the same day. His test came back positive for COVID-19
infection on 11 February. His serology test result has come back
negative, indicating that this is likely a current infection.

We strongly urge everyone to do their part to reduce the risk of
transmission. Those who are unwell, including those showing early/mild
symptoms, should be socially responsible and seek medical attention
immediately and stay at home to prevent the spread of illness to others.
Effective contact tracing is an important enabler to ringfence community
transmission. Both Cases 60138 and 60150 do not use the TraceTogether
App, and while they both have TraceTogether tokens, they did not carry
their tokens with them. Individuals are reminded to turn on their
TraceTogether App or carry their TraceTogether token at all times so
that we can quickly identify and isolate the close contacts of COVID-19
cases, and limit further infections.

Case 60145

Case 60145 is a 20 year-old male Singaporean who is a full-time National
Serviceman. He works at the Singapore Armed Forces premises at 200
Airport Road. He does not stay in camp, and his work does not entail
interacting with other units.

He felt unwell on 3 February, and sought medical treatment at a general
practitioner clinic. As he did not have symptoms associated with acute
respiratory infection, he was not tested for COVID-19 but was placed on
medical leave. He subsequently went back to work on 8 February, and on 9
February, he developed fever and a runny nose. He sought medical
treatment at the medical centre located at Paya Lebar Airbase and was
swabbed. His test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the
next day, and he was conveyed in an ambulance to NCID. His serology test
result has come back negative, indicating that this is likely a current
infection.

Epidemiological investigations are ongoing. In the meantime, all the
identified close contacts of the cases, including their family members
and co-workers, have been isolated and placed on quarantine, and will be
tested at the start and end of their quarantine period so that we can
detect asymptomatic cases. We will also conduct serological tests for
the close contacts to determine if the case could have been infected by
them.

B) CASES RESIDING IN DORMITORIES: 0

There are no cases residing in dormitories today.

C) IMPORTED CASES: 9

-   Amongst the 9 imported cases,
    -   1 (Case 60154) is a Singaporean and 1 (Case 60143) is a
        Singapore Permanent Resident who returned from Malaysia and the
        UAE.
    -   1 (Case 60137) is a Dependant’s Pass holder who arrived from the
        Maldives.
    -   1 (Case 60161) is a Work Pass holder who arrived from the UAE.

    &nbsp;
    -   4 are Work Permit holders who arrived from Indonesia and
        Myanmar, of whom 2 (Cases 60156 and 60160) are foreign domestic
        workers.
    -   1 (Case 60139) is a Short-Term Visit Pass holder who arrived
        from India to visit his family member who is a Singapore
        Permanent Resident.

They had all already been placed on SHN upon arrival in Singapore and
were tested while serving SHN.

4.      Please refer to the Annexes and MOH’s daily Situation Report
(www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/situation-report) for details.
5.      The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been conducting community
surveillance testing for identified community groups. This enables us to
contain cryptic cases in the community early, and prevent further
transmission. In the lead up to Chinese New Year on 8 February and 9
February, we carried out surveillance testing for stallholders, shop
owners, persons in the food and beverage industry, as well as food
delivery persons operating in and around Chinatown. In all, 1,221
individuals were tested. Of these, 1 (Case 60138) tested positive for
COVID-19 infection, 1 sample was rejected by the laboratory, and the
remaining 1,219 individuals tested negative for the virus.

UPDATE ON CONDITION OF CONFIRMED CASES
6.     32 more cases of COVID-19 infection have been discharged from
hospitals or community isolation facilities. In all, 59,558 have fully
recovered from the infection and have been discharged from hospitals or
community care facilities.
7.     There are currently 33 confirmed cases who are still in hospital.
Of these, most are stable or improving, and 1 is in critical condition
in the intensive care unit. 139 are isolated and cared for at community
facilities. These are those who have mild symptoms, or are clinically
well but still test positive for COVID-19. 29 have passed away from
complications due to COVID-19 infection.
8.    With increased interactions over the Chinese New Year period,
there will be higher transmission risks in the community. It is
important that everyone remain vigilant and adhere to the safe
management measures. The number of visitors per household per day is
limited to 8 distinct persons. We encourage everyone to connect
digitally with their family and friends instead of going on physical
visits. For those who plan to do house visits, they should limit their
visits to family members and to not more than 2 other households a day.
Face masks must be worn during _lohei_, and there should not be any
verbalisation of the usual auspicious phrases. If we all play our part,
we can continue to keep the number of cases in our community low.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
11 FEBRUARY 2021
