Covid-19 Vaccination Brought Forward for All Seniors; Extended to
Essential Services Personnel and Higher Risk Groups



COVID-19 VACCINATION BROUGHT FORWARD FOR ALL SENIORS; EXTENDED TO ESSENTIAL SERVICES PERSONNEL AND HIGHER RISK GROUPS


Published Date: 08 Mar 2021

         Singapore continues to make good progress in our vaccination
programme. As of 7 March 2021, we have administered more than 596,000
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. In total, about 379,000 individuals in
Singapore have received at least the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine,
of whom more than 217,000 have received their second dose, and completed
the full vaccination regimen.
BRINGING FORWARD THE OFFERING OF VACCINATION FOR SENIORS
2.      Vaccination for seniors aged 70 years and above commenced
island-wide on 22 February 2021. More than 55,000 seniors have received
their first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, and another 96,000 seniors
have made appointments to receive their first dose in the next few
weeks. Invitation letters have already been sent to all seniors aged 70
years and above, and we are making steady progress in vaccinating this
group.
3.      The Ministry of Health (MOH) had earlier announced that seniors
aged 60 to 69 years will commence vaccination from around end-March. As
more vaccine supplies have arrived, we are able to bring forward the
vaccination for seniors aged 60 to 69 years.  All seniors in this age
group will receive their invitation letters within the next few days.
Each letter will have a weblink which can be used to register for
vaccination, after which an SMS with a unique booking link will be sent
to the senior’s mobile phone for them to book a vaccination appointment.
Alternatively, seniors can also book their appointments for vaccination
at any community centre/club island-wide.
VACCINATION FOR ESSENTIAL FRONTLINE WORKERS OF CRITICAL IMPORTANCE TO
SINGAPORE AND OTHER HIGHER RISK GROUPS
4.       The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination, which was tasked
by MOH to make recommendations to the government on Singapore’s COVID-19
vaccination strategy, had earlier called for the prioritisation of
healthcare workers, nursing home staff and residents, as well as those
involved in COVID-19 operations. The Expert Committee had also
recommended to prioritise frontline workers who are at higher risk of
exposure to COVID-19 infection, including those working in the aviation
and maritime sectors, as well as specific groups who are of critical
importance to the functioning of Singapore. This would ensure that
Singapore would be able to continue to function effectively amidst a
local outbreak situation.
5.        We will thus continue to extend our vaccination programme
progressively to other higher risk groups, as well as essential
frontline workers of critical importance to Singapore, including those
who could pose risks to our vulnerable populations and the community at
large if they are infected.
ESSENTIAL PERSONNEL IN CRITICAL FUNCTIONS
6.      MOH, together with relevant government agencies and statutory
boards, have been progressively offering vaccination to personnel who
provide essential services. These include security agencies responsible
for safeguarding our borders and law and order (including ICA officers
who man our border controls); those involved in the provision of
utilities such as water, energy and telecommunications services; and
workers who ensure the supply of essential food and household items.
7.        As more vaccine stocks arrive, we will extend vaccination to
essential personnel involved in other critical functions, such as
postmen and delivery staff, as well as news reporters, and bank
operation staff engaged in critical banking and financial systems
operations.
ESSENTIAL WORKERS WITH HIGHER RISK OF EXPOSURE AND ONWARD TRANSMISSION
8.         Vaccination was earlier offered to groups who are at higher
risk of exposure, such as active taxi and private hire car drivers who
might convey individuals seeking medical care who turn out to be
COVID-19 patients.
9.         Going forward, we will extend vaccination to those who have
multiple touch points with many members of our community. These include
those who work in hawker centres and markets, such as stallholders and
stall assistants, as well as those who serve in the food delivery
industry.
10.     We will also begin vaccination for the educators and staff who
come into prolonged contact with children and youth. We will start with
those working in pre-schools, national schools, ITEs and polytechnics,
and will progressively extend to those working in other education
institutions. As the current vaccines are not yet certified for those
below the age of 16 years¹, the vaccination for educators and adult
staff will help to protect them and their students, and ensure that our
schools and education institutions remain safe places for learning.
11.       Eligible individuals will be informed of the vaccination
schedule by the relevant government agencies and will receive a
personalised SMS from MOH notifying them to book their vaccination
appointments at vaccine.gov.sg. COVID-19 vaccination will be available
at all vaccination centres, all polyclinics and selected Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs).
MIGRANT WORKERS LIVING IN DORMITORIES
12.      Migrant workers living in dormitories are another group where
large COVID-19 clusters could rapidly develop and grow, with a high risk
of transmission to the local community. Vaccination of migrant workers
living in dormitories is thus part of our national COVID-19 vaccination
strategy to protect all Singaporeans and long-term residents.
13.      COVID-19 vaccination for migrant workers will start with 10,000
workers who have never been infected by COVID-19 and are living in the
five largest dormitories. Vaccination for migrant workers will be
conducted in-situ at these five dormitories.
14.        Vaccination will then be progressively made available to
other migrant workers. Workers who have completed vaccination can be
subjected to a lower frequency of testing, with testing occurring every
28 days instead of the current 14-day cycle.
CARGO VEHICLE DRIVERS AND ACCOMPANYING PERSONNEL DELIVERING ESSENTIAL
GOODS INTO SINGAPORE REGULARLY
15.      To minimise transmission risks from workers who engage in the
supply of essential goods to Singapore, we will offer vaccination later
this month to selected cargo drivers and accompanying personnel who
enter Singapore from Malaysia on a regular basis. Vaccination will
provide an additional layer of protection against COVID-19, ensuring
that these personnel can continue to deliver essential goods to
Singapore safely.  Those who are eligible for vaccination will be
notified via a personalised SMS from the Ministry of Trade and Industry
and will be contacted subsequently for an appointment to undergo
vaccination at designated sites in Singapore. Those who are not
vaccinated may continue to enter, subject to the prevailing infection
control measures such as on-arrival testing and corresponding safe
management measures.
PROVISIONS HAVE BEEN MADE TO VACCINATE EVERYONE IN SINGAPORE
16.        We will continue to systematically extend the vaccination to
other segments from April onwards. All Singaporeans and long-term
residents in Singapore will have the chance to be vaccinated.
17.        While COVID-19 vaccination is voluntary, we strongly
encourage Singaporeans and long-term residents who are medically
eligible to come forward for vaccination when their turn comes. That is
the only way we as a society can keep each other safe from the disease.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
8 MARCH 2021

1  The Health Sciences Authority has approved the use of the
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine in individuals aged 16 years and above,
and the use of the Moderna COVID-19 Vaccine for individuals aged 18
years and above, under the Pandemic Special Access Route.

