Updates On Covid-19 National Vaccination Programme



UPDATES ON COVID-19 NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME


Published Date: 24 Jun 2021

     We continue to make steady progress with our national vaccination
programme. As of 23 June, we have administered more than 5 million doses
of the COVID-19 vaccine. Around 3 million individuals have received at
least the first dose of the vaccine, of whom about 2 million individuals
have received their second dose and completed the full vaccination
regimen.

2.    The overall take-up rate has been encouraging. To date, about 75%
of eligible seniors aged 60 years and above, 77% of eligible persons
aged 45 to 59 years, and 70% of eligible persons aged 40 to 44 years
have received the COVID-19 vaccination or booked their vaccination
appointments. 39% of Singapore Citizens aged 12 to 39 years have also
received vaccinations or booked their appointments.

ACCELERATION IN OUR NATIONAL VACCINATION PROGRAMME

3.      From this weekend, 26 JUNE 2021, onwards, we will accelerate our
national vaccination programme, as we have been able to bring forward
the delivery of our vaccine supplies. Under the accelerated programme,
we will be able to administer up to 80,000 daily doses, up from 47,000
today and around 40,000 in May 2021. We expect to add another 500,000
new first dose appointments in the next few days for slots from now till
mid-July, with more additional slots in the subsequent weeks.

4.    Our national vaccination programme was opened for Singapore
Citizens aged 12 to 39 years from 10 JUNE 2021, with a two-week priority
window for those from this group who had registered to make their
vaccination appointments. We will be extending this priority window by
one week till 1 JULY 2021 to allow more time for individuals who
register to book slots and receive an earlier vaccination appointment
from the additional slots to be opened soon. We therefore encourage
those individuals in this group who have not yet registered to do so
by 1 JULY 2021 to enjoy priority for booking a vaccination slot.

5.    Individuals who have already booked a slot for their first dose
and have appointments in mid-to-end July 2021 are also encouraged to
bring forward their appointments, so that they can protect themselves
and their loved ones sooner. Eligible individuals who have registered
for vaccination and yet to receive a booking link can expect to receive
a SMS with a personalised booking link to make an appointment within the
next week.
6.    From 2 JULY 2021, we will be extending the national vaccination
programme to the rest of the population, including all Permanent
Residents and long-term pass holders in Singapore aged 12 to 39 years.
These individuals can register interest for vaccination and will be
progressively invited to book their vaccination appointments from 2 JULY
2021 via a SMS with a personalised booking link sent to the mobile
number they registered with.
7.    If supplies continue to arrive as planned, we will be able to
substantially cover most of our population with a first dose sometime in
July, and would have achieved our objective of giving as many people as
possible some protection. We will therefore also review the current dose
interval of six to eight weeks with a view to shorten it to four weeks.
This will allow more of our population to complete their vaccination
with two doses and receive maximum protection sooner. More details will
be announced when ready.

KEEPING OUR COMMUNITY SAFE

8.      Vaccination remains a key enabler and its ability to help
Singapore re-open safely can only be felt when we can collectively
achieve a high level of population coverage for vaccination. We
encourage all to register their interest via vaccine.gov.sg and book
their appointments and get vaccinated when they are offered.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 JUNE 2021
