Suspension of Eng’s Heritage (930 Yishun Ave 2, #b1-51, Northpoint City)
Lifted After Meeting Required Standards



SUSPENSION OF ENG’S HERITAGE (930 YISHUN AVE 2, #B1-51, NORTHPOINT CITY) LIFTED AFTER MEETING REQUIRED STANDARDS


Published Date: 27 Feb 2021

             The Singapore Food Agency (SFA) has lifted the suspension
of Eng’s Heritage (930 Yishun Ave 2, #B1-51, Northpoint City). As the
licensee has implemented the required measures as stipulated by SFA,
operations can be resumed.

2              The Ministry of Health (MOH) and SFA had received reports
of gastroenteritis involving 101 persons who had consumed food from
Eng’s Heritage between 6 and 9 January 2021. 12 persons were
hospitalised and have since been discharged. To protect consumers from
further public health risks, the operating licence of Eng’s Heritage was
suspended by SFA from 13 January to 26 February 2021.

3              Investigation into the cause of the gastroenteritis
illness is ongoing.
MEASURES TAKEN BY ENG’S HERITAGE (930 YISHUN AVE 2, #B1-51, NORTHPOINT
CITY)
 4              During the suspension period, Eng’s Heritage has
complied with measures stipulated by SFA. The licensee has disposed all
ready-to-eat food, thawed food, food ingredients and perishable food
items, and also cleaned and sanitised their premises, including their
equipment and utensils.

5              Food handlers involved in food preparation have since
re-attended and passed the Basic Food Hygiene course. Eng’s Heritage has
also assigned another trained Food Hygiene Officer[1] (FHO) to replace
their previous FHO.

CONTINUING SURVEILLANCE
 6              Following the lifting of suspension, SFA will continue
to place Eng’s Heritage at Northpoint City under close surveillance to
ensure that it adheres to food safety requirements.
PUBLIC ADVISORY
 7              Members of the public are advised to seek medical
attention early if they experience any gastroenteritis symptoms (i.e.,
diarrhoea, vomiting, fever or abdominal pain).
 8              To prevent the spread of disease and protect oneself
from acquiring infections, individuals should practise good personal
hygiene at all times. These include:
   • Washing hands with soap and water before eating and after going to
the toilet;
   •  Covering mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing or sneezing,
and throwing the tissue away into a bin immediately; and
   • Not sharing food/drinks, eating utensils, toothbrushes or towels
with others.
 9              In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
27 FEBRUARY 2021
[1] Under the enhanced Food Hygiene Officer (FHO) scheme announced in
December 2018, if the licence of a food establishment is suspended, all
its Food Hygiene Officers are required to re-attend the WSQ Conduct Food
and Beverage Hygiene Audit course, and the premises must have a trained
FHO before it resumes operations.
