Updated Advisory On Covid-19 Vaccination



UPDATED ADVISORY ON COVID-19 VACCINATION


Published Date: 05 Jul 2021

1.     The Ministry of Health was alerted on 3 July 2021 by Khoo Teck
Puat Hospital (KTPH) to a case of a 16 year-old male Singaporean
patient, who was treated at the emergency department at KTPH after he
collapsed at home on the same morning. He was subsequently transferred
to the National University Hospital (NUH) in the evening, where he is in
critical condition at the intensive care unit.



2.     He received his first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
vaccine on 27 June. He was assessed by trained healthcare personnel to
be suitable for COVID-19 vaccination, observed on-site for about 30
minutes post-vaccination and was well. He was also well for the
following five days after vaccination. Prior to his collapse on 3 July,
he did weightlifting at the gym. MOH understands that he trains with
very heavy weights which were above his body weight.

3.     We are in contact with the medical team in NUH who are providing
close medical care for the patient. The preliminary diagnosis of his
condition is an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. Clinical and laboratory
tests are in progress to understand the underlying cause. We will also
work with the medical team in NUH to determine if this might be linked
to his COVID-19 vaccination. This will include a thorough consideration
of whether there was acute severe myocarditis, which is severe
inflammation of the heart muscles affecting the heart function, as a
possible diagnosis.

4.     The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination will monitor the
outcome of this investigation.

5.     The Expert Committee and the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) have
reviewed additional local and overseas data, independently of this
incident. MOH concurs with the recommendations by both the Expert
Committee and HSA for vaccinated persons to avoid strenuous physical
activity after either the first or second COVID-19 vaccination dose. We
advise all persons, in particular adolescents and younger men aged less
than 30 years old, to avoid strenuous physical activity for seven days
after their vaccination, be it the first or second doses, as a further
precautionary measure.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

5 JULY 2021
