Progress of and Adjustments to Vaccination Programme and Updated
Guidance On Use of Masks



PROGRESS OF AND ADJUSTMENTS TO VACCINATION PROGRAMME AND UPDATED GUIDANCE ON USE OF MASKS


Published Date: 18 May 2021

      We continue to make steady progress with our vaccination
programme. As of 17 May, we have administered more than 3.4 million
doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. Close to 2 million individuals have
received at least the first dose of the vaccine, of whom over 1.4
million individuals have received their second dose and completed the
full vaccination regimen.
2.   The overall take-up rate has been encouraging. To date, about 71%
of eligible seniors aged 60 and above, and close to 66% of eligible
persons aged 45 to 59 have received the COVID-19 vaccination or booked
their vaccination appointments.
3.   We will be inviting the next age band of those aged 40 to 44 years
to register for their vaccination. The Health Sciences Authority (HSA)
has also authorised the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine for
those aged 12 to 15 years. In addition, to expedite access to more of
our population, we will also be extending the interval between the two
vaccine doses from 3 to 4 weeks today, to 6 to 8 weeks going forward.
4.   Even as we vaccinate more in the population, mask-wearing is still
critical. We are also updating our recommendations for all members of
the public to use masks with good filtration capability, such as those
having at least a 95% bacterial filtration efficiency – including both
single-use or reusable masks.
5.   During this period, we strongly encourage everyone to remain at
home, and leave the house only for essential activities for the next 4
weeks.
START OF VACCINATION FOR THOSE AGED 40 TO 44 YEARS OLD
6.   We will be inviting the next band of those aged 40 to 44 years to
register for their vaccinations from WEDNESDAY, 19 MAY 2021. Our supply
of vaccines has been steadily coming in, but remains limited given high
global demand. We will continue to roll out our vaccination programme,
but now in five-year age bands, starting with those aged 40 to 44 years,
and progressively moving to younger age bands.
7.   Individuals can only register online via vaccine.gov.sg. Upon their
registration, they will receive an acknowledgement SMS. A separate SMS
with a personalised booking link to book a vaccination appointment will
then be progressively sent to invite eligible individuals on a
first-come-first-served basis, based on their time of registration.
Individuals should expect to receive this booking SMS within 1 to 2
weeks from registration, with appointment slots available up to
mid-June. Those who have registered their interest previously will not
need to re-register. More appointment slots for vaccination will be made
available as more supplies arrive.
8.   We remain on track with our COVID-19 vaccination programme. If our
supplies arrive as scheduled, we expect to be able to complete the
vaccination programme by the end of the year. We strongly encourage
everyone who is medically eligible to register their interest and get
vaccinated when they are offered.
EXTENSION OF THE VACCINE DOSING INTERVAL TO BETWEEN SIX TO EIGHT WEEKS
9.   We will be prioritising first doses of the vaccines for more
people, and speeding up our vaccination programme in order to protect
more Singaporeans. Given our finite vaccine supplies, we have decided to
extend the interval between the first and second vaccine doses, from
three or four weeks, to six to eight weeks. This will apply to
vaccination registrations that occur from WEDNESDAY, 19 MAY 2021.
10.   Those who already have appointments for their second doses will
not be affected.
11.   This approach is adopted in consultation with the Expert Committee
on COVID-19 Vaccination which had studied scientific evidence globally
in clinical trials and real-world roll-out of these vaccines. The
Committee is of the view that the maximum interval between mRNA COVID-19
vaccines could be extended to up to eight weeks to maximise vaccine
coverage, without materially impacting the eventual overall immune
response, as long as the second dose is eventually administered. This
conclusion is based on the data from the original mRNA trials, which has
been bolstered recently by emerging information from real-world
observations, laboratory studies and simulations. The approach of
prioritising first dose vaccinations has also been adopted by countries
such as the United Kingdom and Germany.
12.   Lengthening the interval to between six to eight weeks will enable
us to cover more people with the first dose of the vaccine more quickly,
who will then have some protection. This will help protect more
Singaporeans and optimise our vaccine supply.
HSA APPROVAL OF PFIZER-BIONTECH VACCINE FOR THOSE AGED 12 TO 15 YEARS
12.   As for individuals aged 12 to 15 years old, the Health Sciences
Authority (HSA) has authorised the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19
vaccine under PSAR. EC19V has also endorsed this extension of the
interim authorisation of the vaccine by HSA to this age group.
13.   This will be the first COVID-19 vaccine authorised for use in
Singapore among this age group. In its assessment, the Committee
considered the safety, efficacy and tolerability of the vaccine, and the
study design of clinical trials for this age group. The data showed that
the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine demonstrated high efficacy
consistent with that observed in the adult population. Its safety
profile is also consistent with the known safety profile in the adult
population and the standards set for other registered vaccines used in
the immunisation against other diseases.
14.   The Ministry of Health (MOH) will work with the Ministry of
Education (MOE) on vaccination for this school-going age group and
provide further updates in due course.
IMPROVING ACCESS TO COVID-19 VACCINATION FOR HOMEBOUND PERSONS
15.   To facilitate the vaccination of homebound persons who are unable
to travel to a vaccination site, we have worked with the Health
Promotion Board and Agency for Integrated Care to deploy home
vaccination teams, comprising a doctor and a nurse, to vaccinate these
persons at their homes.
16.   Eligible homebound persons receiving home medical, nursing or
personal care services will be approached by their current home care
service provider to ascertain their interest in getting vaccinated
through this service. If they have not been contacted, they can register
their interest directly with their current home care service provider.
Homebound persons currently not receiving these home care services can
appeal for this service by calling the MOH hotline 1800-333-9999. We
seek the understanding of the public that this service is strictly meant
for persons who are homebound. Persons who are not homebound are
strongly encouraged to make an appointment to get vaccinated at any of
the vaccination sites, when vaccination is offered to them.
17.   We have expanded now to a total of 40 vaccination centres located
island-wide, in addition to 20 polyclinics and the 22 Public Health
Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs). All vaccination centres are
wheelchair-friendly to provide easy access to individuals who have
mobility concerns. Together, these ensure that every Singaporean and
long-term resident in Singapore who is medically eligible can receive
their vaccinations conveniently.
UPDATED GUIDANCE FOR USE OF MASKS
18.   Mask use continues to be one of the key public health strategies
in preventing disease by reducing the expulsion and transmission of
droplets. The recent clusters suggest a higher level of transmission,
likely attributed to new virus variants. A mask with better protection,
such as those with better filtration efficiency, will help to mitigate
the increased risks of transmission and infection. All members of the
public are therefore recommended to use masks with good filtration
capability. These would include reusable masks that are made of at least
2 layers of fabric, and surgical masks.
19.   Single-use masks would typically report their filtration
efficiency as part of their product specifications. Reusable masks such
as masks issued by the People’s Association and Temasek Foundation also
have good filtration efficiency. MOH and HSA will put up guidelines to
aid the public in choosing good masks.
STAYING HOME TO KEEP OUR COMMUNITY SAFE
20.   We had earlier reduced the permissible group size from 5 persons
to 2 persons, and the cap of distinct visitors per household per day
from 5 to 2.
21.   Given the continued rise in community cases, we must exercise
extra caution during this period of heightened alert to minimise
potential transmission within the community. Hence, we STRONGLY
ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO REMAIN AT HOME, AND LEAVE THE HOUSE ONLY FOR
ESSENTIAL ACTIVITIES. All prevailing safe management measures should be
adhered to.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 MAY 2021


