Joint Moh-moe Statement On Erroneous Administration of Moderna Covid-19
Vaccine to 16 Year-old Youth



JOINT MOH-MOE STATEMENT ON ERRONEOUS ADMINISTRATION OF MODERNA COVID-19 VACCINE TO 16 YEAR-OLD YOUTH


Published Date: 04 Jun 2021

          On 3 June 2021, a 16 year-old youth was administered the first
dose of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine[1] at Kolam Ayer Community Club
Vaccination Centre. The error was discovered onsite when vaccination
centre staff identified that the individual was under 18 years of age
during the post-vaccination observation period. As an additional
precaution, he was placed under a longer observation time of 50 minutes,
and remains generally well.

2          Our investigations found that the individual’s date of birth
had been erroneously entered when booking a vaccination appointment
after receiving the sign-up link. This resulted in his age being
incorrectly registered as above 18 years of age, making it possible for
a Moderna vaccination centre to be selected. The vaccination centre
staff had failed to verify his age during registration, which should
have been carried out.

3         The safety of those receiving the vaccination is of utmost
priority. The Ministry of Health (MOH) and Ministry of Education (MOE)
take a serious view of this incident. We apologise for the inconvenience
and anxiety caused, and have reached out to the youth’s parents to
explain the situation. The Expert Committee for COVID-19 Vaccination has
reviewed this case, and does not expect him to suffer any safety issues
from this incident.

4         A thorough review of our internal processes at vaccination
sites has been carried out by MOH to prevent a recurrence. This includes
strengthening our online registration process to ensure individuals make
appointments at suitable vaccination centres based on their eligibility,
as well as putting in place more stringent protocols at our vaccination
sites to verify eligibility. We are in close contact with the individual
and his family, and will continue to monitor his health closely and
provide the necessary support.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
4 JUNE 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The Moderna COVID-19 vaccine is currently authorised for use in
individuals aged 18 and above.
