Two Imported Covid-19 Cases Tested Preliminarily Positive for Omicron
Variant



TWO IMPORTED COVID-19 CASES TESTED PRELIMINARILY POSITIVE FOR OMICRON VARIANT


Published Date: 02 Dec 2021

       The Ministry of Health (MOH) has detected two imported COVID-19
cases who have tested preliminarily positive for the Omicron variant on
2 December. Both cases were isolated upon arrival in Singapore on 1
December, and had not interacted in the community. There is currently no
evidence of any community transmission from these cases.



2.     The cases are currently recovering in isolation wards at the
National Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID). Both are fully
vaccinated, and have mild symptoms of cough and scratchy throat.



3.     Both cases arrived from Johannesburg on board SQ479 on 1
December.



a. Case 271487 is a 44 year-old male Singapore Permanent Resident who
arrived in Singapore from Mozambique, transiting through Johannesburg.
His pre-departure test in Mozambique on 29 November was negative for
COVID-19 infection.



b. Case 271598 is a 41 year-old female Singaporean who arrived in
Singapore from South Africa on 1 December. Her pre-departure test in
Johannesburg on 29 November was negative for COVID-19 infection.



4.     They had undergone a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test upon
arrival in Singapore, and were immediately conveyed to a Stay-Home
Notice (SHN) dedicated facility to be isolated while awaiting their test
results. Upon confirmation of COVID-19 infection, they were conveyed to
NCID.



5.     Their PCR test results have revealed the presence of S-gene
Target Failure which may be associated with the Omicron variant. The
National Public Health Laboratory is conducting whole genome sequencing
to confirm the variant.



CONTACT TRACING IS ONGOING, CLOSE CONTACTS TO BE TESTED AND QUARANTINED



6.     Contact tracing is ongoing. All 19 other passengers who came in
on the same flight have tested negative for COVID-19 infection. These
individuals were all quarantined under SHN at designated facilities upon
arrival and are subjected to a testing regime which includes an
on-arrival PCR test and a SHN exit PCR test.



7.     Other close contacts of these cases, if any, will be placed on
10-day quarantine at designated facilities and undergo PCR tests at the
start and end of their quarantine. All patients suspected or confirmed
to be infected with the Omicron variant will be conveyed to NCID for
isolation and clinical management. Home recovery will not apply.



8.     It is important for everyone to continue to play their part and
remain vigilant to mitigate the spread of COVID-19.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

2 DECEMBER 2021


