Updates On Vaccination Records



UPDATES ON VACCINATION RECORDS


Published Date: 15 Jul 2021

1.   We have made good progress in our national COVID-19 vaccination
programme thus far. As of 14 July 2021, we have administered around 6.5
million doses of COVID-19 vaccine. Around 4 million individuals have
received at least the first dose of the vaccine, of whom about 2.4
million have completed the full vaccination regimen.

UPDATES OF VACCINATION RECORDS FOR SINGAPORE CITIZENS, PERMANENT
RESIDENTS OR LONG-TERM PASS HOLDERS VACCINATED OVERSEAS

2.   As vaccinations grow in availability worldwide, there are also many
Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents, and Long-Term Pass Holders who
have returned from overseas with vaccinations done abroad and would like
their vaccination records updated in Singapore.

3.   From 14 July 2021, such individuals who have received COVID-19
vaccinations overseas with COVID-19 vaccines authorised by the Heath
Sciences Authority under the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR)[1]
or listed on the World Health Organization’s Emergency Use Listing (WHO
EUL) can have their vaccination records updated in the National
Immunisation Registry when they return to Singapore. To do so, they
should have documentation to show proof of their overseas vaccination
and a positive serology test result in Singapore. The positive serology
test provides an additional means to validate the vaccination status of
an individual by detecting that antibodies have been mounted against the
virus.

4.   To update their vaccination records in Singapore, individuals
canvisit a private healthcare provider onboard this initiative[2]
with their overseas COVID-19 vaccination documentation. Upon positive
serology test result, the individual’s vaccination records will
subsequently be reflected on HealthHub after a few days. For Singapore
residents who received their COVID-19 vaccination in Singapore, serology
testing is not required.

KEEPING OUR COMMUNITY SAFE

5.   Vaccination remains a key enabler in our fight against COVID-19 and
its ability to help Singapore re-open safely can only be felt when we
can collectively achieve a high level of population coverage for
vaccination. We encourage those who still have not done so, to register
their interest via vaccine.gov.sg and book their vaccinations and get
vaccinated.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

 15 JULY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] PSAR approved vaccines are Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty and Moderna
vaccines

[2] Details on the providers can be found at:
https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/vaccination/faqs/faqs---post-vaccination-matters
