Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Higher Risk Countries/
Regions



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM HIGHER RISK COUNTRIES/ REGIONS


Published Date: 23 Jun 2021

     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) has been closely monitoring the
local and global COVID-19 situation, and will be reducing the duration
of the Stay-Home Notice (SHN) based on updated evidence gathered over
the past month. From 23 JUNE 2021, 2359 HOURS, all new travellers
arriving from higher risk countries/regions will be subject to a 14-day
SHN, instead of 21 days at dedicated SHN facilities.

REVIEWING BORDER MEASURES TO MANAGE RISKS

2.   In late-April 2021, little was known about the emerging variant of
concern, including its incubation period. As a precaution, we had
required travellers with recent travel history to higher risk
countries/regions [1] to serve a 21-day SHN. We have since reviewed the
international evidence and local case data.

3.   While there is increased transmissibility with the new variants of
concern, we have found no evidence – from both overseas and local data –
that these variants come with longer incubation periods. Since we
introduced the 21-day SHN for all travellers with recent travel history
to higher risk countries/regions from 8 May 2021, we have had 270
imported cases among such travellers (as of 22 June 2021). All of them
had incubation periods well within the 14-day window. As such, we will
reduce the SHN period from 21 days back to 14 days.

4.   However, given the higher transmissibility of new variants of
concern, and to identify potential infection cases early and provide
infected travellers with appropriate medical care as soon as possible,
travellers will be required to test themselves regularly with antigen
rapid test (ART) self-test kits on Days 3, 7 and 11 of their arrival in
Singapore, while serving their SHN [2]. This is on top of the COVID-19
polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests they have to take on arrival in
Singapore, and on Day 14 of their arrival, before they exit SHN.

5.   In summary, we will implement the following changes to the SHN
regime:

a)   From 23 JUNE 2021, 2359 HOURS, all travellers with recent travel
history in the past 21 days to higher risk countries/regions immediately
prior to arrival in Singapore, will only be required to complete 14 days
of their SHN at dedicated SHN facilities [3]. They will undergo COVID-19
PCR tests on-arrival [4] and on Day 14 of their arrival. They will be
allowed to end their SHN as long as they have a negative result for
their PCR test on Day 14 of their arrival [5].

b)   Travellers who had stayed in TAIWAN AND ISRAEL in the 21 days
immediately prior to arrival in Singapore were previously subjected to a
14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities, and an additional 7-day SHN at
their place of residence. From 23 JUNE 2021, 2359 HOURS, travellers who
had stayed in these countries/regions in the 21 days immediately prior
to their arrival in Singapore will be allowed to apply to opt out of
dedicated SHN facilities before arrival and serve their 14-day SHN at
their place of residence, if they fulfil the following criteria:

i) Travelled to no other country/region other than the above-mentioned
countries/regions [6], in the last consecutive 21 days immediately prior
to entry into Singapore; and

ii) Are occupying their place of residence (i.e. residential address)
alone, or only with household members who are also persons serving SHN
with the same travel history and duration of SHN.

c)    Refund details are being worked out for travellers who are
affected by these changes, and will be shared with them separately.

d)    Besides the on-arrival PCR test and PCR test on Day 14 of arrival,
all travellers [7] serving the SHN in dedicated SHN facilities will also
undergo ART self-administered tests on Days 3, 7 and 11 of their
arrival. This new requirement will be implemented for new arrivals from
27 JUN 2021, 2359 HOURS.

6.    Newly arrived migrant workers from higher-risk countries/regions
[8] and staying in dormitories or working in the Construction, Marine
and Process (CMP) sector will continue to go through an additional 7-day
stay at the Migrant Worker Onboarding Centre (MWOC) or a dedicated
facility after they are cleared from their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities. This additional 7-day stay that has been in place since
early this year, will include an additional testing regime, medical
examination and Settling-In-Programme (SIP), where required. This
precautionary measure will further minimise any small risk of imported
COVID-19 positive cases transmitting the virus into the dormitories or
at the worksites which can result in large clusters, and will be
regularly reviewed as the COVID-19 situation evolves.

7.    New crew from higher risk countries/regions who are entering
Singapore on a long-term permit to work onboard harbour craft operating
in the Port of Singapore will undergo an additional 7-day stay and
testing regime at a dedicated facility after they are cleared from their
14-day SHN in Singapore before commencing work onboard the harbour
craft. This will serve as a precaution in view of the essential marine
services that the harbour craft provide to support our supply chain.

8.    As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] As of 23 June 2021, this refers to all countries/regions except
Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Hong Kong, Macao, Mainland China, and New
Zealand. Please refer to the Safe Travel Office Website for updates to
the countries/regions identified.

[2] Travellers serving their SHN in dedicated SHN facilities will
collect their ART self-test kits from the facilities after arrival in
Singapore.

[3] Affected travellers who are currently serving SHN will have their
SHN reviewed and be informed of check-out arrangements separately.

[4] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com.

[5] Actual check-out time will vary, subject to check-out volume on the
ground at each specific dedicated facility. Travellers on SHN will be
informed by the SDFs (SHN Dedicated Facility) on the time of check-out.

[6] Including the following countries/regions: Australia, Brunei
Darussalam, Hong Kong, Macao, Mainland China, and New Zealand.  (correct
as of 23 June 2021).

[7] Travellers (aged 3 and above) will be required to present a valid
negative COVID-19 PCR test taken within 72 hours before departure to
Singapore, and be subjected to all tests required of travellers under
the prevailing border measures.

[8] This refers to Work Permit and S Pass holders (including those with
in-principle approval letters) from CMP sectors who are issued with an
entry approval by MOM and are subject to a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN
facilities on arrival.
