Mandatory Nutrition Labelling and Advertising Prohibitions for
“nutri-grade” Beverages From 30 December 2022



MANDATORY NUTRITION LABELLING AND ADVERTISING PROHIBITIONS FOR “NUTRI-GRADE” BEVERAGES FROM 30 DECEMBER 2022


Published Date: 30 Dec 2021

        From 30 December 2022, “Nutri-Grade” beverages sold in Singapore
in prepacked form and from automatic beverage dispensers will be subject
to new labelling requirements and advertising prohibitions in the Food
Regulations as amended by the Food (Amendment No. 2) Regulations
published on 30 December 2021 (“Amendment Regulations”). Nutri-Grade
beverages¹ include, but are not limited to, soft drinks, juices and
juice drinks, milk and milk beverages, cultured milk/yoghurt drinks, and
3-in-1 or 2-in-1 instant powdered beverages.



2.     High sugar intake is linked to increased risk of obesity and
diabetes. The World Health Organization (WHO) has called on countries to
take action to reduce individuals' intake of sugar to as low as
possible, stating that "nutritionally, people do not need any sugar in
their diet". However, Singaporeans are consuming on average 12 teaspoons
(or 60g) of sugar daily. More than half of Singaporeans’ daily sugar
intake comes from beverages, of which prepacked beverages contribute 64
percent. This is a concern, and more needs to be done to reduce
Singaporeans’ sugar intake.



3.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) announced the decision to introduce
labelling requirements and advertising prohibitions on 10 October
2019, after carefully considering the feedback received from public,
industry and expert stakeholders, and reviewing existing overseas and
local evidence.



4.     The Amendment Regulations aim to (a) help consumers identify
beverages that are higher in sugar and saturated fat and make more
informed, healthier choices; (b) reduce the influence of advertising on
consumer preferences, and (c) spur industry reformulation.



5.     The Amendment Regulations are summarised as follows. Further
details can be found in the Annex:



a) Nutri-Grade beverages are to be graded “A”, “B”, “C” or “D” according
to the Nutri-Grade grading system;
b) Nutri-Grade beverages must carry a nutrition information panel (NIP)
in the form specified in the Twelfth Schedule of the Food Regulations,
specifying the energy value, the amounts of protein, carbohydrate, fat,
total sugar and saturated fat in the Nutri-Grade beverages;
c) Nutri-Grade beverages graded “C” or “D” must be labelled with a
Nutri-Grade mark on the front-of-pack of the package. If Nutri-Grade
beverages are sold by online retail, from a vending machine (in
prepacked form) or a purchaser-facing automated beverage dispenser², the
image of the Nutri-Grade mark must be displayed in accordance with
regulation 184E as introduced by the Amendment Regulations; and
d) Advertisements related to Nutri-Grade beverages graded “D” are
prohibited, except in certain circumstances detailed in regulation
184F(2) as introduced by the Amendment Regulations.



6.     The Amendment Regulations were published today, 30 December 2021,
and will come into operation on 30 December 2022, i.e. 12 months after
the gazette of the Amendment Regulations. This will provide the industry
additional time to comply with the Amendment Regulations and reformulate
their products to increase the range and variety of healthier choices
for Singaporeans.



7.     From 30 December 2022, non-compliance with the new provisions set
out in the Amendment Regulations will be an offence punishable with a
fine not exceeding $1,000 and in the case of a second or subsequent
conviction, a fine not exceeding $2,000.



8.     The new labelling requirements and advertising prohibitions
complement MOH’s and the Health Promotion Board (HPB)’s public education
efforts to shift the market towards healthier product offerings, as part
of a sustainable long-term approach to reshape consumer behaviour and
choices.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

30 DECEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] “Nutri-Grade beverage” is defined in the Amendment Regulations, as
any beverage (including any powder or concentrate meant to be
reconstituted or diluted with fluids before consumption as a beverage),
other than (a) a beverage that contains more than 0.5% (v/v) alcohol at
20°C, (b) a beverage that is prepared by hand at the place or premises
where it is sold, (c) a beverage for which a prospective purchaser may
customise the amount of any ingredient in the beverage, and (d) special
purpose foods such as infant formula. Nutri-Grade beverages include
beverages that are dispensed from automated beverage dispensers (e.g.
fountain machines). Please refer to the Amendment Regulations for more
information.
[2] “Purchaser-facing automated beverage dispenser” is defined in
regulation 184E(4) as introduced by the Amendment Regulations, as an
automated beverage dispenser that shows an image or text listing of what
beverage may be dispensed and is placed (a) at or behind a sales counter
in a way that allows a prospective purchaser to see the image or text
listing; (b) to allow a prospective purchaser to dispense a beverage of
his choice, based on the image or text listing; or (c) in any other way
that allows a prospective purchaser to see the image or text listing.
