One More Case Tested Preliminarily Positive for Omicron Variant



ONE MORE CASE TESTED PRELIMINARILY POSITIVE FOR OMICRON VARIANT


Published Date: 16 Dec 2021

   The Ministry of Health (MOH) has detected one more local COVID-19
case who has tested preliminarily positive for the Omicron variant. The
case is fully vaccinated and has mild symptoms, and is recovering in an
isolation ward at the National Centre for Infectious Diseases. MOH is
ringfencing the case through contact tracing.
2.  Case 276615 is a 42 year-old male who works as a loading assistant
at Changi Airport Terminal 3, and had no contact with flight passengers.
He developed a fever on 8 December and sought medical treatment at a
General Practitioner (GP) clinic where he was tested for COVID-19. His
test result came back positive for COVID-19 infection the next day, and
he was placed on the Home Recovery Programme. As he was subsequently
identified as a close contact of Case 279330, his sample was tested for
the Omicron variant on 16 December and his test result came back
preliminarily positive. The National Public Health Laboratory is
conducting whole genome sequencing to confirm the variant and contact
tracing is ongoing.
3.  All close contacts of suspect Omicron cases will be placed on 10-day
quarantine at designated facilities and undergo polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) tests at the start and end of their quarantine.
Individuals who are identified to have visited places the cases had been
at, and who could potentially have interacted with them, will be issued
a 7-day Health Risk Warning (HRW) by MOH.
4.  To date, there are 24 confirmed Omicron cases detected in Singapore,
with 21 imported cases and three local cases. Given its high
transmissibility and spread to many parts of the world, we should expect
to find more Omicron cases at our borders and also within our community.
It is important for everyone to continue to play their part and remain
vigilant to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, and to come forward to
receive your vaccination or booster dose when offered.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 DECEMBER 2021
