New Clinical Claims Resolution Process Established to Resolve Ip Claim
Disputes



NEW CLINICAL CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS ESTABLISHED TO RESOLVE IP CLAIM DISPUTES


Published Date: 09 Nov 2021

1.     From 9 November 2021, a Clinical Claims Resolution Process (CCRP)
will be established to resolve claim disputes of a clinical nature
between private Integrated Shield Plan (IP) policyholders, IP insurers,
medical practitioners and medical institutions. IP insurers are also
expanding their panels to include a wider pool of specialist doctors by
end 2021.

2.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) had announced in April 2021 that the
Multilateral Healthcare Insurance Committee (MHIC)[1] had been set up to
collaboratively address issues related to health insurance. Amongst
other issues, the MHIC was studying the establishment of a claims
complaints process to provide a streamlined and integrated avenue to
address disputes, and working to expand the size of IP insurer panels.
The MHIC has made progress on both these fronts, and MOH has accepted
the MHIC’s recommendations on these areas.

SCOPE OF CLINICAL CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS

3.     The CCRP will help to facilitate the resolution of clinically
related IP claim disputes, including concerns on unfair rejection of
claims for medically appropriate treatment or procedures, concerns on
over-charging by medical practitioners and medical institutions, and
concerns on over-servicing by medical practitioners. The CCRP will be
administered by a secretariat from the Academy of Medicine, Singapore
(AMS), and will be the main resolution channel for IP disputes of a
clinical nature, complementing the Financial Industry Disputes
Resolution Centre (FIDReC).

4.     The CCRP is a voluntary process. The parties must mutually agree
to participate in the CCRP, and enter into a contractual agreement to
abide by the CCRP Panel’s decision. Parties should, however, attempt to
resolve the disputes amongst themselves at the first instance. For
example, policyholders with clinical-related disputes against the IP
insurers’ decision to turn down their claim should show that they have
not been able to resolve the dispute with the IP insurer before filing a
dispute with the CCRP. This is because IP insurers have claims and
dispute management capability that can deal with specific issues from an
individual’s purchased IP. The disputes filed with the CCRP should be
within six months after the IP insurer’s final reply to the medical
practitioner, medical institution or policyholder.

5.     For disputes originating from IP insurers, medical practitioners
or medical institutions, there will be a ‘three incidents trend
threshold’. These complainants must show two or more prior related IP
claims disputes with the other party within the last five years, which
indicates a pattern of such disputes. This is to ensure that one-off
cases are not brought into the CCRP. This threshold will not apply to
clinical IP disputes that policyholders wish to bring to the CCRP
involving their medical practitioners, the medical institutions or their
IP insurers.

6.     For each dispute, the CCRP will convene a five-member panel
comprising AMS specialists of the relevant specialty, as well as medical
directors from selected IP insurers. The Consumers Association of
Singapore will also support the panel as a consumer advocate. To ensure
objectivity, cases brought before the CCRP will be anonymised before
evaluation by the panel. Members on the panel must also be free of any
conflict of interest pertaining to the dispute or the disputing parties.
The panel members will also be anonymised to the disputing parties.

7.     Complainants will be required to pay an administrative fee per
dispute, subject to Goods and Services Tax (GST). Please refer to Table
1 for the details.

TABLE 1: CLINICAL CLAIMS RESOLUTION PROCESS FEES TABLE

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| COMPLAINANT                       | ADMINISTRATIVE FEES               |
|                                   | PAYABLE[2](SUBJECT TO GST)        |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| IP Policyholder                   | $50                               |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Medical Practitioner              | $200                              |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| Medical Institution or IP Insurer | $500                              |
| (corporate entities)              |                                   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+



8.     Complainants will be able to file their disputes online via the
CCRP website. Further information on the CCRP and the CCRP agreement
form can be obtained from the CCRP website at www.ccrp.com.sg from 9
November 2021.

INSURERS PANELS EXPANDED BY END 2021

9.     Medical panels and pre-authorisation are mechanisms that enable
healthcare insurers to manage healthcare costs and premiums, while
providing assurance to policyholders that their medical treatment and
hospitalisation will be covered. They are commonly deployed by insurers
around the world and, in recent years, also by IP insurers in Singapore.

10.     Today, IP insurers may provide additional benefits over and
above the basic coverage for policyholders who visit doctors on their
medical panels or have their claims pre-authorised. The MHIC has been
working to increase the size of insurer panels to provide policyholders
with a wider pool of specialists on the panels.

11.     Since the beginning of 2021, insurers have actively expanded
their IP panels. The number of private specialists on IP panels have
increased by up to 63%[3], and close to 80% of 1,235 active private
specialists are currently on at least one IP panel. Most IP insurers
have further committed to ensuring that their panels reach a size of at
least 500 private specialists by end 2021[4]. With this, an estimated
80% to 90% of private medical institution claims will be from paneled
providers. The full details of IP insurers’ panel expansion as of August
2021, and their committed panel sizes by the end of 2021 is in Annex B.

12.     The MHIC will continue to work collaboratively with all
stakeholders to strike a balance between preserving patient choice for
continuity of care, ensuring quality, cost-effective care and affordable
premiums.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

 9 NOVEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The MHIC comprises representatives from the Academy of Medicine,
Singapore, Consumers Association of Singapore, Fee Benchmarks Advisory
Committee, Life Insurance Association, Singapore, Singapore Medical
Association and private hospitals. It is chaired by senior officials
from the Ministry of Health and has in attendance a representative from
the Monetary Authority of Singapore. The latest composition of the MHIC
may be found in Annex A.

[2] The fees shown here are before GST.

[3] Great Eastern Life has expanded the number of private specialists on
their IP panel by up to 63%. The rest of the insurers have expanded the
number of private specialists on their IP panels between 7% (Raffles
Health Insurance) to 49% (Prudential). See Annex B for further details.

[4] The last insurer, Raffles Health Insurance, has a small number of
policyholders, and therefore committed to a smaller panel size of 250
private specialists.


