Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Endorses Use of Moderna
Covid-19 Vaccine



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION ENDORSES USE OF MODERNA COVID-19 VACCINE


Published Date: 03 Feb 2021

PRESS RELEASE BY THE EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
        The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination welcomes the
interim authorisation of the Moderna COVID-19 vaccine by the Health
Sciences Authority (HSA), for use in Singapore in individuals aged 18
years and above to prevent COVID-19 disease.
2.        The Expert Committee has independently reviewed the Moderna
COVID-19 vaccine’s safety and efficacy data for different population
segments in Singapore, and has been briefed by HSA on its full range of
considerations in granting interim authorisation, and is satisfied with
its safety and efficacy.
3.      In assessing the suitability of vaccine candidates for specific
population groups, the Expert Committee took into consideration the
safety, efficacy and tolerability of the vaccine and data adequacy of
clinical trials. The Moderna COVID-19 vaccine demonstrated a high
vaccine efficacy of 94%, and its safety profile is consistent with the
standards set for other registered vaccines used in the immunisation
against other diseases.
4.       We endorse HSA’s recommendation of the suitability of use in
individuals aged 18 years and above in Singapore. However, pregnant
women, severely immuno-compromised persons and those under the age of 18
should not receive the vaccine yet, until more safety and efficacy data
become available. Persons with a history of anaphylaxis or severe
allergies should also not be given the vaccine at this time.
5.      The Expert Committee will continue to monitor and review the use
of COVID-19 vaccines in Singapore as more data becomes available over
time. While Singapore currently has a low rate of local transmission of
COVID-19, we remain at risk of a surge in cases. Therefore it is
important that we achieve as comprehensive a coverage of COVID-19
vaccination as possible across the entire population. We strongly
encourage all persons who are medically eligible to be vaccinated when
the vaccine is made available to them.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
3 FEBRUARY 2021
