Concord International Hospital to Resume Provision of Healthcare
Services



CONCORD INTERNATIONAL HOSPITAL TO RESUME PROVISION OF HEALTHCARE SERVICES


Published Date: 15 Jul 2021

The Ministry of Health (MOH) has approved the resumption of healthcare
services by Concord International Hospital (19 Adam Road) as a licensed
acute hospital under the Private Hospitals and Medical Clinics (PHMC)
Act.
2. Concord International Hospital was ordered to temporarily stop the
provision of all healthcare services from 19 December 2020, following
the detection of significant regulatory lapses. These included multiple
life-saving/ patient use equipment and medications that were either not
maintained or not available in the critical areas of the hospital such
as the Intensive Care Unit and the Operating Theatre. There was also a
lack of infection control processes generally in the hospital and
quality control processes in the laboratory, which posed significant
risks to patient safety and well-being.
3. Since 19 December 2020, MOH has worked closely with the hospital to
review the lapses and processes. The hospital has since taken steps to
address the lapses.
4. Subsequent inspections conducted by MOH showed that the hospital has
met the licensing requirements under the PHMC Act. This includes having
the necessary equipment and facilities (including critical emergency
equipment and facilities) at all clinical areas, quality control checks
for clinical laboratory facilities, preventive maintenance performed for
all equipment and proper infection prevention and control practices in
place. The hospital was also assessed to have put in place appropriate
follow-up actions to ensure safe and proper provision of care to
patients prior to resumption of operations.
5. As Concord International Hospital has fully addressed the regulatory
lapses and met the licensing requirements, it has received approval to
resume the provision of healthcare services, with effect from 16 June
2021. The licence for the hospital is for a period of two years. The
hospital has informed MOH that it is planning for re-opening at the same
premises under a new name.
6. Patient safety is of utmost priority. All private and public sector
healthcare facilities, including hospitals, clinics, nursing homes and
clinical laboratories currently licensed under the PHMC Act, are
reminded to fully comply with the Act at all times, and ensure that
safety and quality of clinical care are met at all times.
7. All licensed premises are subject to regular and adhoc inspections
and audits to ensure compliance to the Act. MOH will not hesitate to
take enforcement action against healthcare facilities that fail to
comply with the relevant regulatory requirements, which may include a
fine of up to $20,000 and/or a revocation of the licence.
