Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From Taiwan



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM TAIWAN


Published Date: 15 May 2021

1.     The Multi-Ministry Taskforce has been closely monitoring the
global COVID-19 situation, and will be tightening border measures given
the increase in cases in Taiwan.

TRAVELLERS FROM TAIWAN TO SERVE 21-DAY SHN

2.     We had earlier announced that travellers from Taiwan will be
allowed to go about their activities in Singapore, without a need to
serve Stay-Home Notice (SHN), if their on-arrival COVID-19 Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) test results are negative.

3.     As there has been a recent increase in cases reported by Taiwan,
we will be tightening our border measures with Taiwan. From 16 MAY 2021,
2359 HOURS:

     a,     Singapore Citizens (SCs), Permanent Residents (PRs) and
Long-Term Pass holders entering Singapore with travel history to Taiwan
within the last 21 days before departure for Singapore, will be subject
to a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities, followed by an additional
7-day SHN at their place of residence. They will undergo COVID-19 PCR
tests on-arrival[1], on Day 14 of their SHN, and before the end of their
21-day SHN period.

     b.     Short-term travellers holding an Air Travel Pass (ATP) with
travel history to Taiwan within the last 21 days before departure for
Singapore, will not be allowed to enter Singapore.

     c.     In addition, travellers who are not SCs or PRs, and who have
recent travel history to Taiwan within the last 21 days before departure
will be required to take a COVID-19 PCR test within 72 hours before
departure. Travellers will need to present a valid negative COVID-19
test result as a condition of approval to enter Singapore.

4.     All travellers with travel history to Taiwan within the last 21
days before departure for Singapore, and who ENTERED SINGAPORE BETWEEN
15 MAY 2021, 0001 HOURS, AND 16 MAY 2021, 2359 HOURS, will be subject to
Government-funded COVID-19 PCR tests on Day 3 and Day 7 of their arrival
in Singapore. Affected travellers will be contacted with additional
details on how they can take their COVID-19 PCR tests.

ENABLING A SAFE REOPENING

5.     As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission to
the community. Any changes to border measures will be updated on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check
for the most updated border measures before entering Singapore and be
prepared to be subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry,
including payment for their stay at dedicated SHN facilities, tests and
treatment.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

15 MAY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/
