No Appointment Needed for Persons Due for Third Dose of
Sinovac-coronavac Vaccine



NO APPOINTMENT NEEDED FOR PERSONS DUE FOR THIRD DOSE OF SINOVAC-CORONAVAC VACCINE


Published Date: 24 Dec 2021

1.     Individuals who have taken their first two doses of the
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine can now walk into selected vaccination centres
for their third dose of COVID-19 vaccine to complete their primary
series, without prior appointment.



2.     This follows our announcement on 2 December 2021 that those who
have taken two doses of Sinovac-CoronaVac are strongly encouraged to
take their third dose of a COVID-19 vaccine before 31 December 2021, as
long as three months have passed from their second dose. There are
currently about 29,000 individuals who are due for their third dose,
after having received two doses of the Sinovac-CoronaVac. They are
strongly recommended to receive a PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccine for their
third dose unless medically ineligible to do so.



3.     This will help maintain the protection from the vaccine, as
antibody levels from the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine declines rapidly
within three to six months after completion of the second dose. Emerging
international data indicates that while the mRNA vaccines, especially
with booster vaccination, are protective against the Omicron variant,
the Sinovac-CoronaVac and Sinopharm vaccines result in weaker
neutralising activity and may not be protective.



4.     Taking the remaining dose of the three-dose primary regime will
maintain the individual’s fully vaccinated status. Beyond this time
interval, the individual’s vaccination status will revert to ‘additional
dose needed’ and will be subject to the current
Vaccination-Differentiated Safe Management Measures (VDS) if they do not
do so.



WALK-INS FOR ELIGIBLE INDIVIDUALS TO COMPLETE THIRD DOSE OF COVID-19
VACCINE



5.     Individuals who have taken the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine as their
first two doses can now walk into the following vaccination centres for
their third dose to complete their primary series:



a.  Vaccination centres offering the Moderna vaccine;



b.  Vaccination centres offering the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
vaccine, if they are aged 60 years and older; and



c.  Raffles City Convention Centre (RCCC), which offers the
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine, and takes walk-ins until 31 December 2021.



THREE VACCINATION CENTRES TO OFFER BOTH PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY AND
MODERNA VACCINES



6.     From 27 DECEMBER 2021, three Vaccination Centres – Bishan
Community Club, Canberra Community Club, and Tanjong Pagar Community
Club – will begin administering the Moderna vaccine, in addition to the
currently available Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine. Individuals who
have booked a slot for either vaccine brands at any of these Vaccination
Centres via the National Appointment System are required to keep to
their bookings and chosen vaccine type.



7.     In view of the rise in Omicron cases globally and locally, there
is a need to be boosted for better protection. Those who have had their
second dose of Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty or Moderna vaccine at least
five months ago, but have not yet received their SMS notification can
walk into any Vaccination Centre for a booster vaccination without the
need for a prior appointment.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

24 DECEMBER 2021
