Precautionary Tuberculosis Screening for Patrons of Singapore Pools
Bedok Betting Centre



PRECAUTIONARY TUBERCULOSIS SCREENING FOR PATRONS OF SINGAPORE POOLS BEDOK BETTING CENTRE


Published Date: 20 Jan 2021

                 The Ministry of Health (MOH) has been notified of two
genetically separate clusters involving a total of 18 individuals
diagnosed with tuberculosis[1](TB) who had prolonged exposure at the
Singapore Pools Bedok Betting Centre. The cases had immediately started
treatment following diagnosis and are not a current ongoing public
health risk[2].

2.  The risk of transmission to persons who are not close
contacts is very low. However, as a precautionary measure, officers from
the Singapore TB Elimination Programme (STEP) will be contacting patrons
who have visited Singapore Pools Bedok Betting Centre between 12
February and 25 March 2020 for TB screening. Screening will be conducted
free of charge, at the Tuberculosis Control Unit (TBCU) (142 Moulmein
Road). Voluntary screening will also be offered to former patrons who
had spent prolonged durations (i.e. cumulatively days) at the Singapore
Pools Bedok Betting Centre to watch live horse-racing telecasts between
2018 and 25 March 2020. Patrons who wish to be screened may call the
TBCU hotline at 6258 4430.

3.  In line with MOH’s TB prevention strategy, officers from
STEP had earlier initiated contact investigations upon notification of
each of the cases. Close contacts of all the 18 cases had already been
identified and contacted by STEP for screening.

IDENTIFICATION OF TB CLUSTERS

4.  The two clusters were determined by genetic sequencing
and epidemiological investigations which concluded in January 2021, as
part of retrospective testing of TB cases to determine linkages. The 18
cases were diagnosed between February 2015 and October 2020. The link
among five cases diagnosed between July 2018 and February 2020 was
established and MOH was notified of the cluster on 28 July 2020. The 13
cases in the second cluster, who were diagnosed between February 2015
and October 2020, were notified to MOH between 1 December 2020 and 11
January 2021.

5.  Investigations into the cases did not reveal any common
links, other than that they had all frequently visited the Singapore
Pools Bedok Betting Centre over a period ranging from months to years
and spent prolonged durations at the centre watching live horse-racing
telecasts. The cases did not know each other, and had not identified
each other as close contacts.

PRECAUTIONARY TB SCREENING BEYOND CLOSE CONTACTS

6.  While screening is not compulsory, MOH strongly
encourages these individuals to be screened. Those with positive
screening results will be offered appropriate advice and follow-up.
Those with active TB will be treated immediately while those with latent
non-infectious TB will be monitored and treated if necessary.

7.  Screening for individuals who had visited the Singapore
Pools Bedok Betting Centre or its vicinity, but did not spend prolonged
time watching horse-racing telecasts, is assessed to be unnecessary due
to the very low risk of transmission posed to such individuals.

HEALTH ADVISORY

8.  TB is typically spread through close and prolonged
contact with an infectious individual, and not by contact with items or
surfaces touched by a person with TB. Therefore persons who are
contacted and screened following the detection of a TB individual
typically comprise family members, close workplace colleagues and
acquaintances from common social activities with close and regular
interaction. This approach is recommended by the World Health
Organization (WHO) and is practised in Singapore.

9.  TB is endemic in Singapore and latent TB infection is not
uncommon in our population, as TB had been prevalent in Singapore until
the 1970s and older Singaporeans could have been exposed to TB and
acquired latent TB infection when they were younger. Persons with latent
TB do not experience symptoms of TB and are not infectious.

10.  TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable. Early
detection and prompt treatment of cases remain important in helping
those infected and rendering them non-infectious. For individuals
diagnosed with active TB, adherence to treatment is important.

Annex A

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] TB can be cured with anti-TB drugs. Treatment of active TB, which is
sensitive to first-line anti TB drugs, usually involves a combination of
different drugs, taken for six to nine months.

[2] Individuals diagnosed with TB will rapidly become non-infectious
once treatment starts.
