Update On Precautionary Measures for Stallholders



UPDATE ON PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES FOR STALLHOLDERS


Published Date: 18 Jul 2021

1.     As announced by the Ministry of Health (MOH) on 17 July 2021,
COVID-19 clusters have been uncovered involving fishmongers who visited
the Jurong Fishery Port to collect their stock and sell at the markets.

2.     As a precautionary measure, fresh fish and seafood stallholders
at markets managed by the National Environment Agency (NEA) or
NEA-appointed operators were disallowed from operating this morning in
order to prevent any further transmission. These stallholders have or
will be receiving an SMS Health Risk Warning (HRW) from MOH. The HRW
means that the person is required by law to get a Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) test at designated testing centres. Until tested
negative, the person is required to self-isolate and not leave their
home.

3.     Affected fish and seafood stallholders can also walk in to
specified Regional Screening Centres (Annex) today should they wish to
get their PCR tests done as soon as possible. Stallholders who receive a
negative PCR test result are able to resume business immediately.

4.     In addition to the PCR test, fresh fish and seafood stallholders
will be issued with self-test Antigen Rapid Test (ART) kits and are
required to self-administer an ART test on the seventh day from the last
exposure. They will also be required to undergo another PCR test at
designated testing centres around the 14th day from their date of last
known exposure.

5.     MOH has also arranged with NEA to conduct COVID-19 testing for
all stallholders and stall assistants of market stalls and cooked food
stalls at hawker centres and markets managed by NEA or NEA-appointed
operators. These stallholders and stall assistants will receive an SMS
notification with details of the scheduled test. Stalls not selling
fresh fish or seafood can remain in operation while the testing of
stallholders is taking place over the next few days. We urge all
stallholders and stall assistants to get tested, for their benefit and
that of their patrons.

6.     We advise all visitors to the markets and food centres to avoid
crowds, to visit during off-peak hours where possible, and to strictly
observe safe management measures.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

18 JULY 2021
