Update On Covid-19 Vaccination Programme



UPDATE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION PROGRAMME


Published Date: 28 Jan 2021

      We have made good progress in our COVID-19 vaccination programme.
As of 27 January 2021, more than 113,000 individuals have received their
first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Over 50 individuals have also
received their second dose of the vaccine and completed the full
vaccination regimen. These numbers are expected to rise substantially in
the coming weeks as we continue to ramp up our vaccination operations
safely.
ROLLING OUT OF COVID-19 VACCINATIONS TO SENIORS IN THE COMMUNITY
2.      The first day of COVID-19 vaccination for our seniors aged 70
years old and above commenced on 27 January with two pilots at the Ang
Mo Kio and Tanjong Pagar towns, which is home to a larger number of our
elderly. This has been proceeding well, and more than 250 seniors were
vaccinated on the first day.
3.       Sign-ups for COVID-19 vaccination by seniors in the community
have been encouraging. We expect more seniors to sign up in the coming
days as letters are progressively being sent to invite them to book an
appointment for their vaccination. As of 27 January, we have sent
personalised letters to more than 10,000 seniors in Ang Mo Kio and
Tanjong Pagar, and more than one third of them have booked their
appointments within two days of receiving the invitation. The remaining
seniors in these areas will receive their invitation letters in the
coming week. Personalised letters inviting seniors to sign up for their
vaccination will be progressively sent out to all seniors across
Singapore starting from mid-February as we scale up operations safely.
MORE VACCINATION SITES FOR GREATER CONVENIENCE
4.      To ensure that seniors can conveniently receive their
vaccinations, we will set up more vaccination centres over the next few
weeks to ensure that everyone can conveniently receive their
vaccinations. The vaccination centres will be located in high population
catchment areas and/or along major public transport routes for greater
accessibility. In total, there will be around 40 vaccination centres,
with each vaccination centre planned for an estimated capacity of 2,000
vaccinations per day. To support the start of vaccination for seniors,
we have set up a new vaccination centre at Tanjong Pagar Community
Centre from 27 January, while Teck Ghee Community Centre will also be
operational from 1 February.
5.      Besides the vaccination centres, the polyclinics and selected
Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) will also serve as
vaccination sites. Currently, seniors can already be vaccinated at nine
polyclinics and 21 PHPCs. Come 1 February 2021, all 20 polyclinics
across Singapore will also begin offering COVID-19 vaccinations. Seniors
may be more familiar with the polyclinics and PHPCs, and these areas
will be wheelchair accessible. To reach out to seniors with mobility
issues and hence may find it challenging to visit a vaccination site
in-person, we will set up mobile vaccination teams to deliver the
vaccines to these individuals.
VACCINE SAFETY MONITORING AND UPDATE
6.      The Ministry of Health (MOH) and Health Sciences Authority (HSA)
are closely monitoring the safety profile of the Pfizer-BioNTech
COVID-19 vaccine as it is being administered to our population. Among
the more than 113,000 individuals who have received the Pfizer-BioNTech
vaccine, HSA has received 432 adverse event reports from healthcare
professionals as of 27 January 2021. Most of these reports were for
regular symptoms such as injection site pain and swelling, fever,
headache, fatigue, body aches, giddiness, nausea and allergic reactions
(such as itch, rash, swelling of eyes/lip). These symptoms are reactions
generally associated with all vaccinations and they generally resolved
on their own within a few days.
7.       There were three reported cases of anaphylaxis (rapid onset of
severe allergic reactions) that were quickly resolved by our healthcare
professionals. The individuals, in their 20s and 30s, developed multiple
symptoms such as rash, breathlessness, lip swelling, throat tightness
and giddiness. All three individuals had a history of allergies,
including allergic rhinitis and food allergy such as to shellfish, but
none had a history of anaphylaxis which would have precluded them from
receiving the vaccine. Anaphylaxis can be controlled when detected and
treated in a timely manner. As all vaccinated persons in Singapore are
closely monitored, the symptoms in these three individuals were promptly
detected and treated. All have recovered from the episode and were
discharged from the hospital after a day’s observation or treatment.
8.        The incidence rate of anaphylaxis locally is currently about
2.7 per 100,000 doses administered. The incidence rates reported abroad
is around one to two per 100,000 doses administered, after they have
administered millions of vaccine doses. Variations in the incidence rate
are to be expected initially as the numbers vaccinated in Singapore
to-date are relatively small.
9.       Currently, the benefits of getting vaccinated to protect
oneself from the effects of severe COVID-19 disease and its
complications far outweigh the risk of any potential adverse events
known to be associated with vaccination. MOH and HSA will continue to
work with the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination to closely
monitor the safety of the vaccine and ensure the vaccines used in
Singapore are safe for our population groups, as we roll out our
vaccination programme.
10.      Associate Professor Kenneth Mak, Director of Medical Services
at MOH, said, “Anaphylaxis is a known but rare side effect of the
Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. As with all vaccines, there will
always be a small proportion of susceptible persons who experience
severe allergic reactions upon vaccination. We have put in place
precautionary measures such as pre-vaccination screening and
post-vaccination observation, to ensure that our vaccination programme
can be carried out safely. All three cases of anaphylaxis were promptly
treated and are well. Healthcare professionals in Singapore generally
have a high rate of reporting of adverse events, which reflects their
vigilance and promptness to report any adverse events. We will continue
to work with them and our partners to ensure that vaccinations are
performed safely. Vaccination remains safe for those who are eligible,
and I encourage all Singaporeans and long-term residents to be
vaccinated when your turn comes.”
NEW VACCINE INJURY FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME FOR COVID-19
11.     While we expect few to need this, MOH will nevertheless
introduce a vaccine injury financial assistance programme for COVID-19
vaccination (VIFAP) to provide financial assistance for affected persons
in the rare event of serious side effects that are assessed to be
related to COVID-19 vaccines administered in Singapore. This programme
will give a greater peace of mind for those taking the vaccination.
12.      The VIFAP will provide the following tiers of financial
support:
        i. A one-time pay-out of up to $10,000 will be provided to an
eligible individual who is hospitalised requiring care in the High
Dependency or Intensive Care Unit but subsequently recovers from
medically significant serious side effects; and
          ii. A one-time pay-out of $225,000 will be provided to an
individual who dies or suffers permanent severe disability as a result
of COVID-19 vaccination.
13.      Any individual who experiences serious side effects after
COVID-19 vaccination can also continue to concurrently receive support
through applicable healthcare schemes, such as MediShield Life and
subsidies at our public healthcare institutions.
14.     To qualify for the VIFAP, individuals must be a Singapore
Citizen, Permanent Resident or long-term pass holder who has received
the COVID-19 vaccination in Singapore¹, and experienced a serious side
effect that is potentially life-threatening or fatal, and has required
inpatient hospitalisation or has caused persistent incapacity or
disability. The serious side effects must be assessed by a doctor to be
linked to the individual’s COVID-19 vaccination.
15.   As the severity of serious side effects can be broad, and
assessment by the treating doctors may vary, MOH has appointed an
independent clinical panel comprising experts in relevant fields such as
neurology, immunology and infectious diseases, to assess and adjudicate
VIFAP applications.
HIGH VACCINATION COVERAGE TO MAXIMISE PROTECTION FOR THE POPULATION
16.      Vaccination is critical to protect us and our loved ones
against COVID-19. Vaccination also protects those in our community who
cannot be vaccinated due to medical reasons. This collective protection
will become more effective as more people are vaccinated and is a key
enabler allowing us to return to normalcy. We strongly encourage
Singaporeans and long-term residents to come forward for vaccination
when their turn comes, so that as a society, we can keep each other safe
from the disease.
17.      Even as we progressively vaccinate our population, we must keep
in mind that vaccination is not a silver bullet. We must continue to
adhere to the safe management measures to help us mitigate the spread
and keep community transmission low.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
28 JANUARY 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1 Using COVID-19 vaccines which are approved under the Health Sciences
Authority (HSA)’s Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) and/or registered
under the Health Products Act.

