Voluntary Listing of Direct Telemedicine Service Providers to Help
Patients Make Informed Choices



VOLUNTARY LISTING OF DIRECT TELEMEDICINE SERVICE PROVIDERS TO HELP PATIENTS MAKE INFORMED CHOICES


Published Date: 26 Feb 2021

        The Ministry of Health (MOH) has introduced a voluntary listing
of direct telemedicine service providers to help patients make an
informed choice when selecting a telemedicine service provider. The list
will comprise service providers that have committed to meeting essential
training, process and governance measures stipulated by MOH. As of 22
February 2021, close to 500 providers have declared to meet MOH’s
process and governance measures and are listed.
2.      MOH has been working with the telemedicine industry since April
2018 through a telemedicine-specific regulatory sandbox under the
Licensing Experimentation and Adaptation Programme (LEAP). The
telemedicine sandbox sought to co-create process and governance measures
to support an effective and efficient regulatory regime and allow the
safe growth of telemedicine. With the introduction of the listing and
the objectives of the telemedicine sandbox having been met, MOH will
discontinue the telemedicine sandbox.
3.      Telemedicine is increasingly becoming an important feature of
our healthcare landscape, by offering greater convenience, improving
accessibility to medical care and medications, and strengthening
continuity of care. It also supports MOH’s care transformation efforts
by complementing the functions of general practitioners, polyclinics,
specialists and the intermediate and long-term care sector in areas such
as triaging, follow-up management, chronic condition/symptom management
and healthcare administration. In the past year, telemedicine has been
an important pillar in our fight against COVID-19, by ensuring patients
have access to healthcare while supporting safe distancing measures and
mitigating the spread and exposure to the virus.
4.      With the growth in the number of telemedicine providers over the
last few years, there is a need to ensure such providers offer services
that prioritise patient safety and welfare. There is also a need to help
patients identify providers who are aware of the risks of telemedicine,
have put in place mitigations to address these risks, and agree to
comply with MOH’s measures.
5.      As such, before direct telemedicine services are licensed under
HCSA in 2022, MOH will, in the interim, list providers that have
committed to abide by specific process and governance measures on the
MOH website. To be eligible for listing, these providers must first:
a. Have their doctors and/or dentists complete MOH’s telemedicine
e-training;
b. Put in place professional and process measures to provide safe
telemedicine care (e.g. having in place appropriate follow-up protocols
to direct patients to in-person care where needed, verifying patient
identity, and requesting for patient’s current location during the
teleconsultation to direct emergency services if required), and ensure
compliance to these measures; and
c. Submit an application form to MOH to be listed (including declaring
compliance to MOH’s measures).
6.      From 1 April 2021, only listed providers will be allowed to
offer Community Health Assistance Scheme (CHAS) subsidies and/or submit
MediSave claims for the follow-up of chronic conditions via video
consultations under the Chronic Disease Management Programme (CDMP).
Providers currently on the CHAS/ MediSave video-consultation list [1]
have been earlier informed to resubmit their applications to continue
providing claimable video consultations. Patients who have scheduled a
follow-up for their CDMP condition through video consultation on or
after 1 April 2021, and intend to use CHAS subsidies or MediSave, should
verify beforehand that their provider is listed by checking the
voluntary listing.
7.      While listing is voluntary, MOH strongly encourages providers to
participate in the listing, and to address risks and comply with
measures early. Doing so will facilitate providers in their transition
to becoming licensees under the Healthcare Services Act (HCSA) in 2022.
8.      The full listing of direct telemedicine service providers can be
found on the MOH website [2].
CLOSURE OF LEAP REGULATORY SANDBOX
9.      Since 2018, MOH has worked with 11 telemedicine providers, with
varying business and care models, to meet the objectives of the LEAP
regulatory sandbox for telemedicine:
a. Ensure patients and caregivers have early access to telemedicine
services with essential safety and risk mitigation measures in place;
b. Allow participating sandbox providers to introduce new care models or
evolve their current models in a safe manner, with early visibility over
the eventual regulatory environment; and
c. Allow MOH to keep in step with the evolving healthcare landscape and
to co-create fit-for-purpose and effective mitigations.
10.      In the last three years, these 11 providers have offered over
40,000 unique teleconsultations through the sandbox with no major
patient safety issues or complaints reported. Through close
collaboration with sandbox providers, and interviews with doctors and
patients, MOH co-developed key process and governance controls with the
telemedicine community to enable the safe growth of the modality. Some
examples include using live video consultation to authenticate the
patients’ identity, assess visual cues and build better rapport with the
patients, and determining the patient’s exact location at the start of
the teleconsultation to direct emergency services when necessary.
11.      These insights were collated into a free telemedicine
e-training programme [3] launched in March 2020 to guide doctors and
other healthcare professionals and staff on the safe use, limitations
and implementation of telemedicine into their current practices. As of
22 February 2021, over 6,200 learners have completed MOH’s telemedicine
e-training.
12.      This open collaborative effort between private providers and
MOH has shown how active engagement and participation in the regulatory
sandbox can guide better regulatory clarity and also enable a safe space
for providers to innovate. This is in line with MOH’s efforts in
adopting a participatory approach in engaging providers on new models of
care. MOH would like to express its appreciation to all 11 telemedicine
providers for working with the Ministry to develop fit-for-purpose
regulatory requirements.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
26 FEBRUARY 2021
==
[1] https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/vc
[2] https://www.moh.gov.sg/licensing-and-regulation/telemedicine
[3] https://go.gov.sg/tmetraining
