Appointment of New Chairman for Health Sciences Authority



APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHAIRMAN FOR HEALTH SCIENCES AUTHORITY


Published Date: 23 Sep 2021

    The Minister for Health has appointed Associate Professor Benjamin
Ong Kian Chung as the Chairman of the Board of the Health Sciences
Authority (HSA) from 1 October 2021 to 30 September 2024.

NEW CHAIRMAN, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR ONG KIAN CHUNG
2.    Associate Professor Benjamin Ong is the Senior Vice President
(Health Education and Resources) at the National University of
Singapore, and Senior Consultant at the Division of Neurology of the
National University Hospital. As Deputy Chairman of the HSA Board since
1 October 2020, he brings with him extensive clinical expertise and
experience in public healthcare. Associate Professor Ong held key
leadership and professional positions in the healthcare sector, and was
Director of Medical Services (DMS) at the Ministry of Health (MOH) from
2014 to 2020, where he played a pivotal role in developing Singapore’s
healthcare system. He also serves on various private and public sector
Boards, including as Chairman of the Expert Committee on COVID-19
Vaccination, Senior Advisor to the current DMS and a member of the
Public Service Commission.
3.    As Chairman of HSA, Associate Professor Ong will lead HSA in its
continued mission to regulate health products, serve the administration
of justice, secure the nation's blood supply and safeguard public
health. Amidst the constantly evolving and increasingly complex health
and technology landscapes, Associate Professor Ong’s astuteness and
steady leadership will allow HSA to continue to adapt and innovate to
support health system transformation efforts, while maintaining the
highest scientific, professional and ethical standards.
OUTGOING CHAIRMAN, PROFESSOR SATKUNANANTHAM S/O KANDIAH
4.    MOH wishes to express our appreciation to Professor Satkunanantham
s/o Kandiah, who has steered HSA with distinction since 2014. Professor
Satkunanantham played a critical leadership role in strengthening the
scientific rigour, expertise and capacity of HSA, and establishing its
reputation and recognition as a well-respected scientific and regulatory
authority both nationally and internationally. Under his stewardship,
HSA has grown significantly in its professional expertise and diverse
capabilities of health product regulation, transfusion medicine as well
as forensic and analytical sciences.
5.    During his tenure, Professor Satkunanantham was instrumental in
overseeing HSA’s efforts at being more pro-enterprise, making
significant improvement in its performance in the Pro-Enterprise Panel
and Singapore Business Federation’s Pro-Enterprise Survey. He was also
keenly interested in ensuring sustainability of the National Blood
Programme and he supported decentralisation efforts in meeting
Singapore’s blood demand and building up of testing capabilities to
ensure continued safety of the blood supply.
6.    Professor Satkunanantham constantly encouraged the advancement of
scientific expertise and pursuit for excellence as a trusted national
authority in forensic science, medicine and analytical services. During
the COVID-19 pandemic, Professor Satkunanantham fully supported HSA in
contributing towards the national efforts to address the global health
crisis and its impact on public health and safety.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
23 SEPTEMBER 2021


