Updating Our Healthcare Protocols for A More Covid-19 Resilient Nation



UPDATING OUR HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS FOR A MORE COVID-19 RESILIENT NATION


Published Date: 14 Sep 2021

1.     As announced by the Multi-Ministry Taskforce last week, with the
rising number of infection cases and as Singapore moves towards COVID-19
resilience, we need to adjust our healthcare protocols. There are two
areas. First, we have adjusted our Home Quarantine Protocol so that
contact tracers can focus on conducting manual contact tracing for
sensitive clusters in settings such as hospitals, schools or markets
frequented by seniors. For the other sporadic infection cases, we will
quarantine household contacts of infected persons, because these
contacts are most at risk of being exposed to the virus. In addition, we
will use TraceTogether data to generate Health Risk Warning (HRW) and
Health Risk Alert (HRA) based on existing protocols.



2.     Second, given that over 98% of infected individuals have no or
mild symptoms, we will expand the Home Recovery scheme, to allow more
infected individuals to self-isolate, and take the necessary health
precautions at home, with telehealth monitoring support. This will
reserve our hospital capacity for those who truly need the medical care,
so that we can continue to provide appropriate care for all even with
higher infection numbers.



3.     Taken together, these changes will lay the foundation for a more
COVID-19 resilient nation.



ADJUSTMENTS TO HOME QUARANTINE

4.     With effect from 11 September 2021, we have reduced the
quarantine period from 14 days to 10 days from the date of last exposure
to a COVID-19 case, provided the Person-under-Quarantine (PUQ) tests
negative for COVID-19 at the end of his or her quarantine. PUQs who
received their Quarantine Orders (QO) before 11 September, have
completed 10 or more days in quarantine, and have a negative Polymerase
Chain Reaction (PCR) test result, will progressively have their QO
rescinded earlier. Following rescindment, all PUQs will need to continue
to self-administer Antigen Rapid Tests (ART) from Day 11 to Day 14 (from
their date of last exposure).

5.     Today, about 7 in 10 close contacts of community cases prefer
Home Quarantine. After being notified by MOH, they remain in their home
for the duration of the quarantine, except to take PCR tests. We have
seen good compliance to the Home Quarantine requirements. Community
cases have also been very helpful and cooperative in assisting MOH to
identify their close contacts. Given this experience, and with the
increasing numbers of infections, we have adjusted the protocol from 14
September 2021.

6.     Our contact tracers will continue to conduct manual contact
tracing for sensitive clusters like schools, hospitals, or markets
frequented by seniors. For the less sensitive infection cases, an SMS
will be sent to all newly confirmed COVID-19 cases, notifying them that
they are required under the Infectious Diseases Act to inform their
household contacts to register themselves as household close contacts
through an online portal (https://go.gov.sg/quarantinereg). The
household close contacts must provide the last date of exposure with the
COVID-19 case and a contact number.

7.     An electronic Quarantine Order (eQO) will be sent to registrants
to indicate the quarantine period and instructions to book PCR tests.
PUQs will then be able to go online to schedule their entry and exit PCR
tests at a Regional Screening Centre (RSC) near their home. They will be
able to travel to the RSCs for the PCR tests and collect free ART kits,
administer their own ART daily and upload their results. Should they
feel unwell or in need of medical attention, PUQs will also be given
instructions to access 24/7 telemedicine services during their
quarantine.

8.     As with the current practice, persons with unsuitable home
settings for quarantine could still request to be sent to a Government
Quarantine Facility.

9.     Related to this are the protocols for HRW and HRA. From 14
September 2021, the HRW has been reduced from 14 to 10 days from the
date of last exposure to a COVID-19 case, to align with the shift to a
10-day QO regime. MOH issues HRW to close contacts of COVID-19 cases
based on TraceTogether data. These may not be household contacts and
have a smaller risk of infection compared to PUQs. Individuals issued
HRW are required by law to take one PCR test upon receiving their
notice, self-isolate until they receive a negative result, conduct three
ART self-tests over the 10-day period of their HRW, and do another PCR
test at the end of the HRW.

10.     Besides HRW, individuals can instead be issued an HRA if they
had contact of a relatively shorter duration with a COVID-19 case based
on TraceTogether data, or their SafeEntry records from the past 14 days
overlapped with an area of increased transmission. This group are
persons who have had directly or indirectly been exposed to the risk of
infection, even if that risk is lower than that of a close contact.
Individuals who receive the HRA should monitor their health for the next
10 days, are strongly encouraged to come forward for a free PCR swab
test, perform regular ART self-tests throughout the 10 days following
their exposure, and minimise interactions with other people.

11.     Some individuals may be notified by confirmed COVID-19 cases to
self-register as household close contacts and be issued an eQO, as well
as receive a HRW or HRA at the same time. They should note that
quarantine takes precedence. Similarly, a health risk assessment will be
made after the submission of Home Quarantine registration and
individuals may be converted to HRW.

TRANSITION TO HOME RECOVERY

12.     From 15 September 2021, Home Recovery will be the default care
management model for individuals who are:
a) Fully vaccinated;
b) Aged 12 to 50 years old;
c) Have no or mild symptoms;
d) Have no severe co-morbidities or illnesses; and
e) Have no household members who are more than 80 years old, or are in
one of the vulnerable groups (e.g. pregnant individuals; with weakened
immune response; or with multiple co-morbidities).

13.     When an individual is tested COVID-19 positive, Home Recovery
can start immediately if he or she meets the abovementioned criteria.
The individual will need to set aside a room with an attached bathroom.

14.     There is no need to go to a hospital or Community Care Facility.
COVID-19 patients on Home Recovery will undergo an initial remote
assessment by a telemedicine provider on the first day of their Home
Recovery journey to ensure that they are clinically well. These
individuals will also be issued with an Isolation Order and may be
tagged with an electronic monitoring device to ensure they remain in
their designated room at home.
15.     Parents of children who test positive for COVID-19 can also
bring their children home to recover, if the child is at least five
years old and has no co-morbidities or underlying illnesses. For the
child’s safety, a clinical assessment would first have to be done at a
hospital before the child can return home to recover.
16.     The individuals undergoing Home Recovery will be provided with
access to information, including advisories on the signs and symptoms to
look out for. If required, they can request for a care pack which
contains a thermometer, pulse oximeter, surgical masks and hand
sanitiser. A Home Recovery Buddy will also contact the COVID-19 patient
at the start of Home Recovery to check on them and explain how to use
the thermometer and oximeter. COVID-19 patients should monitor, measure
and record their health signs such as body temperature, pulse rate and
blood oxygen saturation (SpO₂) at least once a day using the care diary
provided to them. In the event that these individuals require any
medical assistance, they will have 24/7 access to their designated
telemedicine provider.
17.     During Home Recovery, the entire household should practise good
personal hygiene. The patients must avoid any physical or face-to-face
contact with the rest of the household, to prevent any onward
transmission of the virus. As the household members will most likely all
be issued eQO, the household should also arrange for contactless
deliveries when ordering essential items such as food or groceries.
18.     COVID-19 patients on Home Recovery may contact the designated
telemedicine service provider that they have been assigned to arrange
for a PCR swab on Day 6 of illness to end the Home Recovery period
sooner. If the COVID-19 patient’s test result meets the discharge
criteria (i.e. if their PCR result is negative or has a low viral load),
he or she may be discharged from Home Recovery on Day 7 of illness.
Otherwise the patient’s Home Recovery period will end on Day 10 of
illness without any further tests, so long that the patient is well.
After discharge, COVID-19 patients will no longer be subject to any
movement restrictions, although they are still advised to minimise
social interactions for the next seven days. They may request for a
Medical Certificate of up to 7 days from the telemedicine service
provider, if they require more time to rest and recuperate. These are in
line with the discharge protocols at our medical facilities.
19.     We should point out that in the event that an infected
individual is undergoing Home Recovery and household members are on QO,
the infected individual may be discharged earlier than the household
members on QO. This is not illogical, because for a fully vaccinated
infected individual, the viral load will decrease very quickly and
typically clears by Day 7. Whereas for someone exposed to the virus and
on QO, his or her viral load may take up to 10 days to build up and for
the illness to manifest itself.
EVERYONE NEEDS TO DO THEIR PART
20.     Overall, the more extensive use of Home Quarantine, HRW, HRA and
Home Recovery will allow us to ensure appropriate care and
self-isolation for our COVID-19 infected individuals, while mitigating
the risk of further transmission in a more scalable and sustainable
manner. This approach requires a whole-of-society effort as we shift
towards greater personal responsibility and self-care. By each doing our
part, we will be able to progress together towards becoming a COVID-19
resilient nation.
Annex A - 8 Important Steps: What must you do when you are notified that
you are a close contact of a COVID-19 positive case (Infographic)

 Annex B - 10 Important Steps: What happens when you test positive for
COVID-19 (Infographic)

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

14 SEPTEMBER 2021
