Updates On Border Measures for Travellers From India, Hong Kong, United
Kingdom and South Africa



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS FROM INDIA, HONG KONG, UNITED KINGDOM AND SOUTH AFRICA


Published Date: 20 Apr 2021

         The Multi-Ministry Taskforce regularly reviews Singapore’s
border measures to manage the risk of importation from travellers and
onward local transmission, taking into account the current situation in
their source countries/ regions.
2.       Given the worsening situation in India, and emergence of new
virus variants, we will tighten border measures for travellers from
India by reducing entry approvals for non-Singapore Citizens/ Permanent
Residents, and subjecting all travellers arriving from India to an
additional 7-day Stay Home Notice (SHN) at their place of residence,
following their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities from 22 APRIL
2021, 2359 HOURS.
3.       As the situation in Hong Kong has improved, we will reduce the
SHN period from 14 days to 7 days which can be served at their place of
residence if suitable. This will apply to travellers who have remained
in Hong Kong in the last 14 consecutive days and who enter Singapore
from 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS.
4.       From 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS, we will allow entry and transit
for all Long-Term Pass holders and short-term visitors with recent
travel history to the UK and South Africa.
5.       To facilitate critical and essential official travel in a safe
and calibrated manner, fully-vaccinated individuals on such official
overseas travel to higher risk countries/ regions will be required to
adhere to a controlled itinerary while overseas, and undergo a stringent
testing regime and a 7-day self-isolation period upon their return.
FURTHER PRECAUTIONS FOR TRAVELLERS FROM INDIA
6.       Given the worsening situation in India, and emergence of new
virus variants, we will tighten border measures for travellers with
recent travel history to India by reducing entry approvals for
non-Singapore Citizens/ Permanent Residents with immediate effect.
7.       As a further precaution, from 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS, all
travellers with recent travel history to India will be subjected to an
additional 7-day SHN at their place of residence [1], following their
14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities. They will be tested at the end
of their SHN (as per the current requirement), and again after they have
completed their 7-day SHN period. Travellers who have yet to complete
their 14-day SHN by 22 April 2021, 2359 hours, will also be subjected to
the additional 7-day SHN period. Migrant workers arriving from India in
the Construction, Marine and Process sectors will continue to be
subjected to a 21-day SHN. These measures will minimise importation
risks and protect public health.
TRAVELLERS FROM HONG KONG TO SERVE A 7-DAY SHN
8.       We had earlier announced that travellers from Hong Kong are
required to serve a 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities.
9.       Given the improved local situation in Hong Kong, travellers
arriving from Hong Kong from 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS will undergo a
reduced 7-day SHN, which can be served at their place of residence if
suitable [2]. They will be subjected to an on-arrival COVID-19
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test [3] and another PCR test before the
end of their 7-day SHN.
LIFTING OF ENTRY RESTRICTIONS FOR TRAVELLERS FROM THE UNITED KINGDOM AND
SOUTH AFRICA
10.       We had earlier restricted entry and transit for all Long-Term
Pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel history to the
UK and South Africa. This arose from concerns of a more contagious
variant of the COVID-19 virus circulating in these countries/ regions.
Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who were in these countries/
regions in the last 14 days prior to their entry have also been
subjected to an additional 7-day SHN period at their place of residence,
following their 14-day SHN at dedicated SHN facilities.
11.       Our existing border control and domestic measures have been
able to contain the risks of community spread from imported cases with
such variants, which is now present in many countries beyond UK and
South Africa. As such, from 22 APRIL 2021, 2359 HOURS:
a. Long-Term Pass holders and short-term visitors with recent travel
history to the UK and South Africa within the last 14 days will now be
allowed entry into Singapore, after obtaining the relevant entry
approvals.
b. Arriving travellers will continue to serve a 14-day SHN at dedicated
SHN facilities, with an additional 7-day SHN at their place of
residence.
c. Travellers with recent travel history to the UK and South Africa will
now be allowed to transit through Singapore on airlines approved to
operate such transfers.
12.       The Ministry of Health will continue to evaluate the data on
the various strains of the COVID-19 virus as these emerge and review our
border measures accordingly.
BORDER MEASURES FOR CRITICAL AND ESSENTIAL OFFICIAL TRAVEL [4]
13.       In spite of the COVID-19 pandemic, essential business and
official travels still need to continue. While many meetings have been
conducted over digital media, certain critical discussions need to be
done face-to-face.
14.       Official interactions are also crucial to safeguarding and
advancing Singapore’s national interests. To facilitate critical and
essential official travel in a safe manner, we will allow
fully-vaccinated individuals who travel to higher-risk countries/
regions as part of an official delegation [5] to be subjected to a
stringent testing and self-isolation regime from 22 April 2021, 2359
hours.
15.       They must adhere to a strict event-by-event controlled
itinerary while overseas, and undergo COVID-19 PCR tests on-arrival, and
on Day 3, Day 7 and Day 14 of their return [6]. As an added precaution,
these travellers will also be required to undergo a 7-day self-isolation
period at home (or in a hotel) upon return. They may only leave their
place of accommodation to commute to the PCR test site or to the
workplace for essential work that cannot be done remotely.
16.       Travellers who are not fully-vaccinated will continue to be
subjected to prevailing border measures upon their return.
LOOKING AHEAD TO FURTHER REOPENING
17.       As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust
our border measures to manage the risk of importation and transmission
to the community with changes updated on the SafeTravel website. The
Ministry of Health will also continue to review the data and evidence on
any new viral strains and update the measures accordingly.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
20 APRIL 2021
[1] Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass holders
may serve their additional 7-day SHN at their place of residence, that
they or their family members own or are sole tenants of, or in suitable
accommodations such as a hotel.
[2] Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass holders
may serve their 7-day SHN at their place of residence, that they or
their family members own or are sole tenants of, or in suitable
accommodations such as a hotel.
[3] To expedite the COVID-19 PCR test at the airport, travellers are
strongly encouraged to register and pre-pay for their on-arrival
COVID-19 PCR test prior to departing for Singapore at
https://safetravel.changiairport.com/.
[4] “Critical and Essential Official travel” refers to travel at the
request of the Singapore Government, that is important to safeguarding
or advancing Singapore’s national interests, for the purposes of
representing Singapore in an official capacity in important meetings,
functions or international forums overseas.
[5] Travellers in official delegations will be informed by Government
agencies of their eligibility for such travel arrangements prior to
their departure from Singapore.
[6] This is similar to the testing requirements imposed for the Business
Travel Pass scheme available for business travellers.
