Issuance of Correction Direction Under the Protection From Online
Falsehoods and Manipulation Act On Falsehoods On Covid-19 Vaccines



ISSUANCE OF CORRECTION DIRECTION UNDER THE PROTECTION FROM ONLINE FALSEHOODS AND MANIPULATION ACT ON FALSEHOODS ON COVID-19 VACCINES


Published Date: 29 Nov 2021

There are false and misleading statements about COVID-19 vaccines
contained in a blog post by Cheah Kit Sun titled ‘Do Not Participate In
A Society that Rejects You’, published on Wednesday, 20 October 2021 on
various online locations, which was shared by Goh Meng Seng on Facebook
(20 October 2021). It is important to correct these falsehoods,
especially given the ongoing vaccine booster exercise.
2. The Minister for Health has instructed the Protection from Online
Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (POFMA) Office to issue Correction
Directions to Cheah Kit Sun and Goh Meng Seng for spreading those
falsehoods. Cheah and Goh are required to publish the correction notices
as specified by POFMA Office for each webpage and social media post
containing the falsehoods.
CORRECTIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS ON FALSEHOODS REGARDING CONTENT ABOUT
COVID-19 VACCINES IN A BLOG POST BY CHEAH KIT SUN
3. In particular, the blog post misleads people into thinking that the
COVID vaccines are the most dangerous developed recently as they have
caused a substantially higher rate of death and serious injury compared
to all other vaccines over the last 10 years.
4. These claims are false. COVID-19 vaccines approved for use in
Singapore are safe. They have been assessed to be safe and effective
internationally by reputable health and scientific agencies, and in
Singapore by both the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) and the Expert
Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V). As of 31 October 2021, the
serious adverse event incidence rate reported by healthcare
professionals to HSA is 0.006% of total doses administered. Thus far, no
deaths have been attributed to the COVID-19 vaccines. The benefits of
receiving COVID-19 vaccines continue to far outweigh the risks of
vaccination.
5. The United States’ Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS)¹
data do not support the claim that COVID-19 vaccines have caused a
substantially higher rate of serious injury and death.
6. First, COVID-19 vaccines have been given to a very large proportion
of the US population in 2021, while the other vaccines have been given
to substantially fewer individuals in any given year. Thus, it is
misleading to compare the absolute number of reported adverse events and
deaths for COVID-19 and non-COVID vaccines.
7. Second, there is much higher surveillance and awareness of adverse
event reporting for COVID-19 vaccines, compared with other vaccines.
8. Third,  any member of the public may report adverse events and deaths
to the VAERS system, regardless whether it is caused by vaccines or
other factors. The reports are not required to be verified. They often
lack details and sometimes contain errors. No proof is required that the
adverse event or death was caused by the vaccine. And adverse events
need not be serious; they include mild side effects such as
rash/cold/headaches.
9. The post has been written to falsely exaggerate the dangers of
COVID-19 vaccines, and to discourage people from taking them. If people
believe these falsehoods, there could be serious health consequences for
those who then remain unvaccinated. As stated earlier, the evidence so
far is that serious adverse events have been reported in only 0.006% of
total doses administered.
10. For facts of the case, please refer to the Factually article
“Corrections and Clarifications regarding content about COVID-19
vaccines in a blog post by Cheah Kit Sun at
https://www.gov.sg/article/factually291121”.
11. MOH advises the public not to speculate and/or spread misinformation
which may cause public alarm, and to refer to credible sources of
information instead. Please visit www.moh.gov.sg for the latest
information on COVID-19 and COVID-19 vaccinations. For vaccine SAE
statistics, please refer to HSA and its Safety Updates published
monthly.

[1] The Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System is co-managed by the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the U.S Food and
Drug Administration (FDA).

