Extending Vds-enabled Activities, Vaccinated Travel Lanes and Recreation
Activities for Migrant Workers As Part of Calibrated Easing In
Stabilisation Phase



EXTENDING VDS-ENABLED ACTIVITIES, VACCINATED TRAVEL LANES AND RECREATION ACTIVITIES FOR MIGRANT WORKERS AS PART OF CALIBRATED EASING IN STABILISATION PHASE


Published Date: 15 Nov 2021

      On 8 November 2021, the Multi-Ministry Task Force (MTF) announced
the calibrated easing of selected safe management measures (SMMs) as
part of the mid-point review of the extended Stabilisation Phase. SMMs
for migrant workers residing in dormitories will similarly be eased now
in a calibrated manner, by expanding their community visit programme and
allowing daily visits to the Recreation Centres (RCs) for migrant
workers. We are also progressively rolling out more stringent
implementation of Vaccination Differentiated Safe Management Measures
(VDS) in hawker centres and coffee shops, in consultation with the
operators, to allow up to five fully vaccinated individuals from the
same household to dine-in together after being checked-in via SafeEntry.
Pilots imposing more stringent entry conditions, e.g. Antigen Rapid
Tests (ARTs) on top of participants being fully vaccinated, in exchange
for more permissive SMMs, will also be rolled out in selected MICE,
musical and sporting events in the coming weeks. Finally, we will
continue reconnecting Singapore with the rest of the world in a safe
way, by extending Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs) to include India,
Indonesia, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.



UPDATES ON LOCAL COVID-19 SITUATION AND HEALTHCARE CAPACITY



2.     The week-on-week ratio of community cases has remained stable at
around 0.8 to 1.0 this past week. We should expect the ratio to drift
upwards as more restrictions are being relaxed and there are more social
interactions. While daily case numbers continue to trend at around 3,000
a day, close to 99% of cases continue to have mild or no symptoms and
the vast majority are recovering well at home.



3.     The proportion of patients who require oxygen supplementation has
held steady at 0.8% of our total cases, and those who require intensive
care unit (ICU) care at 0.3%, in the past 28 days. The number of cases
in the ICU remains high but stable in the past week at close to 130
cases per day. Our overall ICU occupancy is approximately 63%.



UPDATES ON VDS MEASURES FOR BUSINESSES AND COMMUNITY



Pilots with VDS+Test Protocol



4.     We had announced our intention to pilot greater allowances for
activities involving those who are less vulnerable and are fully
vaccinated, subject to the additional requirement of testing before
participation, i.e.  a “VDS+Test” protocol. The test (Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR) or ART) results must be reflected on TraceTogether, or
performed or supervised by the event organiser or venue operator (either
in person or virtually).



5.     We will start off with selected MICE (Meetings, Incentives,
Conferences and Exhibitions), spectator sports and live performance
events, where capacity limits and zoning requirements will be eased in a
calibrated manner. The pilots kicked off today with the Milken Institute
Asia Summit (15-16 November 2021), and will also apply to the Bloomberg
New Economy Forum (16-19 November 2021), and Industrial Transformation
Asia Pacific 2021 (22-24 November 2021). JJ Lin’s two-day charity live
concert “After the Rain” (27-28 November 2021), and a ONE Championship
martial arts event in the coming months will also be included. More
details on the requirements and safe management measures will be
released by the respective event organisers.



6.     The outcomes of these pilots will be assessed before deciding how
to expand the protocol to more events and settings, as part of
our broader plan to allow safe resumption of further activities as we
move towards being a COVID-19 resilient nation.



Dine-in Restrictions for Hawker Centres and Coffee Shops



7.     We had announced earlier that we will tighten the imposition of
VDS in hawker centres and coffee shops, as these are mask-off settings
where the unvaccinated can get infected easily. It is therefore
important to have proper checks on vaccination status before someone
enters a hawker centre or coffee shop, and to allow only those who are
fully vaccinated to sit down to eat. This can make a very significant
difference to our healthcare capacity, and especially ICU occupancy.



8.     However, these are settings where implementation and enforcement
are more challenging. The National Environment Agency (NEA) has been
engaging the Hawkers’ Associations and Town Councils. We expect the
first group of hawker centres to put in place access control and
checking systems before the end of November. For these hawker centres,
once the systems are up, fully vaccinated individuals from the same
household can dine in groups of five, just like other F&B
establishments. The remaining hawker centres should then be able to
follow soon after.



9.     As for coffeeshops, the Singapore Food Agency (SFA) has similarly
been engaging the operators and will provide them with the option of
putting in place a system to control access and check the status of
their patrons, which will allow them to enjoy the concession for
individuals from the same household to dine in groups of
five. Otherwise, the prevailing group size of two will apply.



10.     For dine-in of up to five individuals from the same household,
we will expand the list of acceptable documents to check for proof of
residence, from NRIC and SingPass, to the following approved Government
digital apps: myICA and SGWorkPass.



FURTHER EXPANSION OF COMMUNITY VISIT PROGRAMME AND MORE CONVENIENT
ACCESS TO RECREATION CENTRES FOR MIGRANT WORKERS RESIDING IN DORMITORIES



11.     The migrant worker dormitories are now more COVID-resilient,
with 98% of migrant workers residing in dormitories fully vaccinated¹.
Migrant workers are also taking up booster vaccinations at an
encouraging pace as they become eligible. COVID-19 infections in the
dormitories have stabilised over the last few weeks with an average
daily number of 143 migrant workers testing PCR positive in the last
week. They also have to undergo weekly testing, regardless of
vaccination status².



12.     Hence, from 3 DECEMBER 2021, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will
further ease restrictions for migrant workers residing in dormitories by
expanding the community visit programme from 3,000 migrant workers per
week to 3,000 vaccinated migrant workers per day to visit any location
within the community, for up to eight hours per visit. The necessary
safeguards such as additional pre-event ART, i.e., before they leave
their dormitories, remain in place as an added precaution.



13.     We will also make RC visits more accessible for migrant workers.
They will be allowed to visit the RCs daily with an extended duration of
eight hours per visit. This is up from the thrice weekly cap on RC vists
that is currently in place. Unvaccinated migrant workers are required to
undergo a pre-visit ART to be allowed entry into RCs.



14.     From mid-December, we will further increase access to RCs, and
allow migrant workers to visit any RCs of their choice. MOM is working
with RC operators to increase the variety of activities at the RCs, such
as organising screenings of movies and sports games, and putting in
place processes to manage a larger number of visits from migrant
workers. More details can be found in the Annex A.



NEW AFFORDABLE SELF-TEST ART KITS APPROVED FOR USE



15.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) and Health Sciences Authority
(HSA), with the assistance of Diagnostic Development Hub (DxD) in Agency
for Science, Technology and Research (A*STAR) and our healthcare
institutions, have been actively sourcing for more high quality and
affordable self-test ART kits, to bring down costs while ensuring that
those authorised for sale in Singapore continue to meet stringent safety
and quality standards.



16.     To this end, on 8 November 2021, HSA had authorised the Flowflex
ART kit under the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) for self-test
use, bringing the total number of approved ART kits to nine.
Additionally, two other ART kits have been approved to undergo PSAR
registration. We expect these kits to be priced significantly below the
current prices of ART kits.



ONGOING UPDATES TO BORDER MEASURES



Review of Countries/ Regions Categories



17.     As part of our regular review of the COVID-19 situation in
countries/ regions, we have updated the list of countries/ regions in
the various categories. Details are in Annex B. These will be effective
for arrivals from 18 NOVEMBER 2021, 2359 HOURS.



Extension of Vaccinated Travel Lanes to India, Indonesia, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates



18.     To-date, we have launched VTLs with Australia, Brunei, Canada,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Republic of Korea,
Spain, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and the United States; and we will
be launching VTLs with Malaysia, Finland, and Sweden from 29 November
2021. Travellers under the VTLs are not subject to Stay-Home Notice
(SHN) on arrival. Instead, they will be required to produce a negative
Pre-Departure Test taken within two days prior to departure and undergo
an on-arrival PCR test.



19.     We intend to launch VTLs with INDIA AND INDONESIA FROM 29
NOVEMBER 2021 and with QATAR, SAUDI ARABIA, AND THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES (UAE) FROM 6 DECEMBER 2021. Vaccinated Travel Pass
(VTP) applications for Short-Term Visitors and Long-Term Pass
Holders will commence on 22 NOVEMBER 2021 for travellers from
INDONESIA; AND 29 NOVEMBER for travellers from QATAR, SAUDI ARABIA, AND
UAE. Returning Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who are fully
vaccinated will not need to apply for VTP in order to make use of the
VTLs for travel. Travellers intending to travel from Singapore to these
VTL countries / regions are advised to check the prevailing entry
requirements of the destination.



20.     The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore will provide more
details separately.



MOVING STEADILY TOWARDS A COVID-19 RESILIENT SINGAPORE



21.     As we continue to adjust our measures progressively for a safe
re-opening, we seek everyone’s continued effort and cooperation to
exercise social responsibility and comply with all the VDS conditions
and SMMs we have put in place. Test yourself regularly and follow the
necessary health protocols. If you are offered a vaccination or booster
dose, please also come forward and get vaccinated. This will ensure that
our limited healthcare resources are effectively allocated to those in
need and pave the way for us to be a COVID-19 resilient nation.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

15 NOVEMBER 2021



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] An individual is considered fully vaccinated if he / she has
received the appropriate regimen of World Health Organisation Emergency
Use Listing (WHO EUL) vaccines including their respective duration
post-vaccination for the vaccine to be fully effective and had their
vaccination records ingested in MOH’s national IT systems.

[2] With the exception of recovered workers.
