Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Continues to Endorse the
Effectiveness of the Mrna Covid-19 Vaccines



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION CONTINUES TO ENDORSE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE MRNA COVID-19 VACCINES


Published Date: 07 Jun 2021

          The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V)
recommended that the messenger RNA-based (“mRNA”) COVID-19 vaccines –
Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines -  be used in Singapore following
the authorisation of both vaccines by the Health Science Authority (HSA)
under the Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR). We have noted social
media messages asserting that the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are ineffective
against Variants of Concern (VOCs) and that inactivated virus COVID-19
vaccines would provide superior protection. Our assessment, based on a
continual review of data and evidence, remains that the PSAR-authorised
mRNA vaccines are safe and highly effective, and continue to show
protection against the VOCs. The inactivated virus COVID-19 vaccines
have variable protection and there is currently no evidence to suggest
that inactivated virus vaccines demonstrate higher vaccine efficacy
against VOCs than the mRNA vaccines.



PSAR-AUTHORISED MRNA VACCINES ARE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE AGAINST COVID-19



2  The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna mRNA vaccines have been
consistently shown to be highly efficacious, at around 90%, especially
in protecting against severe COVID-19 disease and hospitalisation. This
was first demonstrated in the pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials, and
further supported with the data from actual roll-outs in the real-world,
including in the United States (US), the United Kingdom (UK) and Israel.
This includes protection against key VOCs such as the alpha and beta
variants, which were the predominant strains circulating in these
countries.



3  Despite concerns over the delta variant, emerging data shows
that the mRNA vaccines continue to be effective. A study in the UK
demonstrated that two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine confer
about 88% protection against symptomatic COVID-19 even with the delta
variant. While further studies are required before a definitive
conclusion can be made, the available data globally indicates that
substantial protection is preserved.



4  Protection conferred by any vaccine is not 100%, and with the
emergence and spread of new variants due to mutations,
vaccine-breakthrough infections can occur. The detection of asymptomatic
to mild infections locally with the delta variant does not indicate a
lack of protection. The finding that the infections have been
asymptomatic to mild in symptoms is in keeping with the global evidence
that the mRNA vaccines have a high level of protection against
symptomatic and severe disease.



5  The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines have been approved by
multiple reputable international regulatory bodies. The manufacturers
have publicly released their detailed study protocols and openly
published their findings to be scrutinised by the scientific community
after peer review. The detailed assessments of their vaccines by
regulatory bodies such as the US Food and Drug Administration and the UK
Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency have also been
publicly published.



6  In sum, the PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines have reliable
scientific evidence that they are safe and effective, and the EC19V
continues to strongly recommend that medically eligible persons should
be vaccinated with them.



COVID-19 INACTIVATED VIRUS VACCINES



7  The Sinovac vaccine has yet to meet the requirements for a PSAR
authorisation by HSA as additional safety and quality data required to
meet the standards of the PSAR evaluation are still pending. The Sinovac
vaccine has also shown variable protection across multiple studies
carried out internationally. The most complete analysis of the vaccine
showed a vaccine efficacy of 51% on per-protocol analysis. The
protection of Sinovac against newer variants such as the delta variant
and under real-world conditions remains unknown.



8  Sinovac has been qualified by WHO under its Emergency Use
Listing (EUL) Procedure for use only in persons aged 18 years and above.
WHO does not recommend it for use in persons below age 18 years. As
such, it is currently not an option for children and adolescents
globally nor in Singapore under the Special Access Route (SAR).



9  It is critical that medical professionals do not spread
unsubstantiated and unscientific information. The public has a right to
expect medical professionals to give advice based on fact and not on
unproven assertions. The public should rely on reputable sources of
scientific and medical information, and verify opinions shared by others
against these. The PSAR-authorised mRNA vaccines are safe and effective,
and the EC19V recommends that medically eligible persons in Singapore
should be vaccinated with them.





EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

7 JUNE 2021
