Updates On Border Measures for Travellers



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES FOR TRAVELLERS


Published Date: 31 Dec 2021

1.     When the Omicron variant of concern surfaced globally, the
Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) announced enhanced testing regime for
travellers arriving via the Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs) to reduce the
risk of spread of Omicron into Singapore. As of 30 December 2021, we
have detected 912 Omicron imported cases; of whom 685 were detected
through our enhanced testing regime for VTL travellers.



2.     We previously announced that all VTL travellers [1] must undergo
COVID-19 tests up till Day 7 of their arrival and strictly adhere to
this enhanced testing regime (please see Annex for testing regime) for
four weeks in the first instance (until 2 January 2022). The enhancement
has proven effective in detecting imported Omicron cases amongst VTL
travellers and reducing onward transmission. As such, we will be
extending the enhanced testing regime for an additional four weeks and
will review it as the situation evolves.



3.     We had earlier also required all non-VTL travellers entering
Singapore to undergo on-arrival tests (OAT). This was to pick up the
Omicron cases early, as the variant was new, and we wanted to learn more
about it. As we have gathered more information on the Omicron variant,
we have further assessed that OATs for non-VTL travellers, who are all
required to serve a 7 or 10 day Stay Home Notice (SHN) either at their
place of residence or at a dedicated facility, are no longer required.
In addition, these travellers will also be required to undergo a
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test at the end of their SHN, and have
to test negative before they are allowed to exit SHN, further reducing
the risk of onward transmission. Hence, FROM 7 JANUARY 2022, 2359 HOURS
(SINGAPORE TIME), all non-VTL travellers entering Singapore from
Category II (non-VTL), III and IV countries will no longer be required
to undergo a COVID-19 PCR test on-arrival.



REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES



4.     As the global situation evolves, we will continue to adjust our
border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a COVID resilient
nation. The full list of Safe Travel Lanes for travel to Singapore and
prevailing border measures under each lane for different categories and
changes to border measures will be updated on the SafeTravel website.
Not all lanes may utilise the Category I/II/III/IV health measure
framework. Travellers are advised to visit the website to check the
latest border measures for their country/region which will apply upon
entry into Singapore and be prepared to be subjected to the prevailing
border measures upon entry.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

31 DECEMBER 2021

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] As announced on 4 December 2021, all Construction, Marine Shipyard
and Process (CMP) S Pass and work permit holders, as well as other
dormitory-bound work pass holders, will not be allowed to enter
Singapore via VTLs.
