Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends A Booster Dose of
Mrna Covid-19 Vaccine for Persons Aged Between 50 and 59 Years, Six
Months After Completion of Their Primary Series



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS A BOOSTER DOSE OF MRNA COVID-19 VACCINE FOR PERSONS AGED BETWEEN 50 AND 59 YEARS, SIX MONTHS AFTER COMPLETION OF THEIR PRIMARY SERIES


Published Date: 24 Sep 2021

      The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has been
closely reviewing the data regarding the need for additional vaccine
dose, and recommends that persons aged between 50 and 59 years should
receive a booster dose of a Pandemic Special Access Route (PSAR) mRNA
vaccine from six months after the completion of vaccination with two
doses

2.    EC19V had earlier recommended that persons 60 years of age and
above, and residents of aged care facilities should receive a booster
dose of a PSAR mRNA vaccine. Data from Israel’s nationwide booster
vaccination rollout shows that a vaccine booster in persons aged 50-59
years maintains strong protection against COVID-19 without additional
safety concerns, similar to that for persons age 60 years and older.
3.    COVID-19 cases in Singapore are continuing to rise, and we can
expect transmission to persist as we transition to COVID-19 resilience.
Adults aged 50-59 years have a higher risk of severe disease compared to
younger persons, and the current levels of protection could decrease
over time. Therefore, persons between 50 and 59 years of age are now
also recommended to receive a booster dose of a PSAR mRNA vaccine from
six months after their primary vaccine course to maintain a high level
of protection against severe disease.
DOSING FOR MODERNA VACCINE
4.    While there are no significant safety concerns on the use of the
Moderna vaccine for the recommended population groups, recent data has
shown that a 50 mcg dose of the Moderna vaccine, as compared to the 100
mcg dose used for the primary series vaccination, is sufficient to boost
the immune response significantly.

5.    EC19V therefore recommends that for persons receiving the Moderna
vaccine as a BOOSTER, the 50 mcg dose should be used. Persons receiving
the Moderna vaccine for their primary vaccination (first two doses) and
severely immunocompromised persons who require a three-dose enhanced
primary vaccination, should continue to receive the 100 mcg dose of the
Moderna vaccine.

6.    For the Pfizer vaccine, the dose for primary vaccination and
boosters remains the same, at 30 mcg per dose, as there is no data yet
to recommend any changes.

7.    EC19V will continue to monitor the data and developments around
COVID-19 vaccination and will update its recommendations based on the
latest scientific and clinical evidence.

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
24 SEPTEMBER 2021
