Opening Remarks by Parliamentary Secretary for Ministry of Health and
Ministry of Communications and Information Ms Rahayu Mahzam At the 30th
Anniversary Celebrations of the Breastfeeding Mothers’ Support Group
(singapore) On 18 December 2021



OPENING REMARKS BY PARLIAMENTARY SECRETARY FOR MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION MS RAHAYU MAHZAM AT THE 30TH ANNIVERSARY CELEBRATIONS OF THE BREASTFEEDING MOTHERS’ SUPPORT GROUP (SINGAPORE) ON 18 DECEMBER 2021


Published Date: 18 Dec 2021

Ms Khatim Hamidon, BMSG President,

BMSG Executive Committee Members,

Mothers, Breastfeeding Advocates, Breastfeeding community

   Good morning. I am very pleased to join all of you today to
celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Breastfeeding Mothers’ Support
Group (BMSG) Singapore.

BREASTFEEDING EFFORTS IN SINGAPORE
2.  Breastfeeding is important to keep our babies healthy. It provides
the essential energy and nutrients needed for optimal growth and
development, as well as protection against infectious and chronic
diseases. Especially relevant to current times, the breastmilk of
mothers vaccinated against COVID-19 can help protect their babies from
COVID-19 due to antibodies against the virus it contains. Pregnant or
breastfeeding mothers are therefore recommended to be vaccinated if not
already so. In addition, mother's milk is more easily digested than
formula milk.
3.  The World Health Organization (WHO) and the Health Promotion Board
recommend all babies to be exclusively breastfed for the first six
months and for up to two years or longer as long as both mother and baby
are comfortable. Babies can continue with breast milk and be weaned at
four to six months to a balanced diet. Breastfeeding boosts the
mother-child relationship, prevents uterine bleeding after birth and
helps the uterus return to its normal size. It also lowers the risk of
diabetes, breast and ovarian cancers.
4.  There are many upsides of breastfeeding. However, we also recognise
that breastfeeding may sometimes be challenging and an emotional journey
for mothers. It is important to provide support for mothers in the form
of education, putting in place an enabling environment, and letting
mothers know that they are not alone in this journey. In this aspect, I
am encouraged by the strong commitment of BMSG and its key stakeholders
in supporting breastfeeding.
5.  A key stakeholder in perinatal nutrition and infant health is our
hospitals. In 2017, the Ministry of Health called for all maternity
hospitals, including private hospitals, to come on-board the
Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI). This initiative was launched
by the WHO and UNICEF to provide a conducive environment for successful
breastfeeding and optimal nutrition for babies from birth. I am pleased
that all public and five private maternity hospitals in Singapore are
now BFHI-certified. The remaining two private maternity hospitals are
committed to being accredited.
6.  Beyond this, BMSG also provides antenatal and postnatal
breastfeeding education, as well as counselling across both physical and
virtual platforms through a team of 40 trained counsellors. BMSG’s
efforts will help to complement the Government’s work to raise awareness
of breastfeeding, and provide appropriate emotional support and
resources to breastfeeding mothers, as well as training for healthcare
workers and caregivers.
LOOKING BEYOND COVID-19
7.  Being a mother is no easy feat, especially amidst uncertain times
like this. Even as we transit towards a COVID-19 resilient nation,
challenges to our health, healthcare system and economy will remain. We
can expect that the psychosocial impact of the pandemic will continue to
be felt for some years to come, with knock-on effects on our mental
health and wellbeing. I urge all to remain resilient and come together
to support one another.
8.  Thank you, and once again, happy 30th anniversary to BMSG!
