Publication of Fees Charged by Private Ambulance Operators for Price
Transparency



PUBLICATION OF FEES CHARGED BY PRIVATE AMBULANCE OPERATORS FOR PRICE TRANSPARENCY


Published Date: 08 Jun 2021

                From 1 June 2021, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has
published a list of fees charged by Private Ambulance Operators (PAOs)
accredited under the Voluntary Accreditation Scheme (VAS) to provide
conveyance services to the public. This helps to ensure greater price
transparency for those who need private ambulance services.

2.            The list of fees can be found on the MOH website[1] and
provides information on common charges by VAS-accredited PAOs such as
general conveyance fees and the use of commonly consumed services such
as cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The list also contains detailed
charges for items and consumables used for specific patient groups and
medical conditions such as medications, airway/ ventilation and
trauma-related equipment. These allow the public to make informed
decisions about the choice of PAO based on the patient’s medical
condition, and to estimate the bill size prior to engaging the PAO.

3.            The listing of fees by the individual VAS-accredited PAOs
is currently voluntary. All PAOs will be required to publish their fees
as part of price transparency requirements under the Healthcare Services
Act (HCSA), when the Emergency Ambulance and Medical Transport Services
Regulations[2] come into effect at the end of 2021.

4.            The VAS was introduced in 2018 to facilitate the PAOs’
transition into HCSA. Under HCSA, private ambulance services will be
licensed to ensure the safety and safeguard the welfare of patients.
Private ambulance services will be regulated as either an Emergency
Ambulance Service or Medical Transport Service. Accredited operators
under the VAS must adhere to standards under the scheme before the
regulations for private ambulance services are implemented under HCSA.

5.           As of 31 May 2021, more than 90 per cent[3] of the PAOs
have come on board the VAS. The list of VAS-accredited PAOs is available
on the Healthcare Institution (HCI) directory[4]. We encourage the
public to make use of VAS-accredited PAOs should they require PAO
services.

6.           As MOH does not regulate the fees charged by the PAOs, the
list serves as a consolidation and guide of price information. There may
be other charges depending on the patient’s specific condition. The
public are advised to check directly with the respective PAOs prior to
engaging the service, to verify the fees applicable. The list of fees
will be continually updated as PAOs submit their fees to MOH.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] www.moh.gov.sg/licensing-and-regulation/accredited-private-ambulance-operators

[2] Emergency Ambulance Service means a service to transport, by land,
any individual suffering, or believed to be suffering, from an injury or
condition of acute or sudden onset and of an emergency nature. Medical
Transport Service means a ground conveyance that is used or intended to
be used for the transport of patient(s) who is being provided with
non-emergency clinical care or monitoring en-route.

[3] Based on market share by number of EAS/MTS vehicles.

[4] http://www.hcidirectory.gov.sg/hcidirectory/.
