Safety of Mrna Vaccines In Persons With Anaphylaxis



SAFETY OF MRNA VACCINES IN PERSONS WITH ANAPHYLAXIS


Published Date: 04 Jun 2021

        The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) recommends
extending the use of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech and
Moderna to persons with a history of anaphylaxis not related to the mRNA
vaccines.
2.     Anaphylaxis is a potentially life-threatening allergic reaction.
Previously, the EC19V had recommended that persons with a history of
anaphylaxis should not receive the mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccination. This
was out of an abundance of caution in light of some overseas and local
reports of anaphylaxis with the mRNA-based vaccines in individuals with
a history of allergies, when the mRNA vaccines were first introduced.
3.     Local and international data indicates that mRNA vaccines are
suitable for use in persons with anaphylaxis not related to mRNA
vaccinations or its components. To date, more than 200 million doses of
mRNA-based vaccines (both Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna) have been
administered worldwide. The data has been reassuring, and there are no
safety issues detected with vaccinating individuals with a history of
anaphylaxis to other triggers. The incidence rate of anaphylaxis
reported locally with these mRNA vaccines has also stabilised at about
0.85 per 100,000 doses administered, a rate comparable to that reported
internationally.
4.     EC19V now recommends that persons with a history of anaphylaxis
or allergic reactions to other drugs, food, insect stings, or unknown
trigger (idiopathic) can be vaccinated with a 30-minute observation
period after vaccination.
5.     Individuals with a history of anaphylaxis to any component of the
mRNA COVID-19 vaccine are still not recommended to receive the mRNA
COVID-19 vaccine. Individuals who have an anaphylactic reaction after
the first dose of mRNA vaccine should not receive the second dose.
Non-mRNA vaccines may be authorised for use by HSA and be made available
in the future, hence these individuals are advised to wait for these
vaccines instead.
6.     Where individuals had a history of allergies to other vaccines,
because there may be similar components in these vaccines as the mRNA
vaccines, these individuals should be first be referred to an allergist
for further evaluation and if deemed suitable, may be vaccinated with
the mRNA vaccines.
7.     The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination will continue the
review emerging safety data with the view of allowing more persons who
remain contraindicated to be vaccinated with mRNA vaccines if it is
safe.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
4 JUNE 2021


