Suspension of Chilli Api Catering Pte Ltd’s Food Business Operations



SUSPENSION OF CHILLI API CATERING PTE LTD’S FOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS


Published Date: 14 Mar 2021

           The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Food Agency
(SFA) are investigating an incident of gastroenteritis affecting a total
of 82 persons who were reported to have gastroenteritis symptoms after
consuming food prepared by Chilli Api Catering Pte Ltd (located at 3015
Bedok North Street 5 #05-26/#06-19/#06-24/#06-27/15, Shimei East
Kitchen) between 10 and 12 March 2021. 14 cases are currently
hospitalised and are in a stable condition.

2          In view of the suspected ongoing transmission, SFA has issued
a direction to suspend Chilli Api Catering Pte Ltd food business
operations with effect from 14 March 2021 until further notice.

3          All food handlers working in the premises are required to
re-attend and pass the Food Safety Course Level 1 and test negative for
foodborne pathogens, before they can resume work as food handlers. The
appointed Food Hygiene Officer(s) working at the premises are also
required to re-attend and pass the WSQ Conduct Food and Beverage Hygiene
Audit course before he/she can resume work as a Food Hygiene Officer.
The licensee is also required to clean and sanitise the premises,
including equipment and utensils.

4          Food safety is a joint responsibility. SFA would like to
remind food operators to observe good food and personal hygiene
practices at all times. SFA will not hesitate to take firm action
against anyone found to be in violation of the Environmental Public
Health Act. In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
14 MARCH 2021
