Covid-19 Vaccination Extended to Eligible Short-term Pass Holders



COVID-19 VACCINATION EXTENDED TO ELIGIBLE SHORT-TERM PASS HOLDERS


Published Date: 18 Aug 2021

       Over the past few months, we have made good progress on our
vaccination programme.  As of 16 Aug, 76% of our population has received
the full vaccination regimen and 82% have received at least one dose.
Daily administration is coming down, to about 40,000 doses a day,
compared to 80,000 at its peak.
2.    From 18 August 2021, we will extend the COVID-19 national
vaccination programme further, to short-term pass holders (STPHs) who
have been in Singapore for an extended period of time. Although their
stay in Singapore is temporary, vaccinating this group would further
strengthen the resilience of our society against COVID-19.
3.    The groups included comprise short-term work pass and special pass
holders, such as those on Training Employment Passes (TEPs), Training
Work Permits (TWP), Work Holiday Passes (WHP) and Special Passes. It
will also be made available to eligible Short-Term Visit Pass (STVP)
holders who have been in Singapore for at least 60 days continuously,
many of whom who were unable to return because of global travel
restrictions during the pandemic.
VACCINATION REGISTRATION PROCESS
Short-Term Work Pass and Special Pass holders
4.      All age-eligible TEP, TWP, WHP, and Special Pass holders may
walk-in to any of the vaccination centres to receive their first dose
without a prior appointment. They should bring along identifying
documents such as their passport and their work/special passes for
verification. These pass holders will not be notified by Ministry of
Health (MOH). They will not be able to walk-in to polyclinics or
participating PHPCs.
Short-Term Visit Pass holders
5.      Eligible STVP holders who have valid phone numbers registered
with the Government will receive an SMS from MOH via their registered
mobile number. The SMS, that will be sent progressively over the coming
days, will include a personalised booking link to vaccine.gov.sg where
individuals can book their appointments. They will not be able to
walk-in to any of the vaccination sites without an appointment.
6.      STVP holders with valid pass extensions who do not receive an
SMS from MOH by 22 Aug may request for an appointment by sending MOH
supporting immigration documentation via www.vaccine.gov.sg/appeal. We
will review such requests on a case-by-case basis over the next few
weeks, after receiving these requests.
7.      The eligible STPH groups mentioned above may view their
vaccination status in the TraceTogether App from late-September 2021
onwards.
VACCINATION WILL BE PROVIDED FREE
8.      COVID-19 vaccination will be provided free for eligible STPHs.
However, they will not qualify for the Vaccine Injury Financial
Assistance Programme for COVID-19 Vaccination. Any medical bills
incurred by them following the vaccination appointment will also be
subject to the prevailing charging policies.
9.      As more of our population get vaccinated and the local situation
remains under control, we can stay on track to further re-opening and
progress as a nation towards COVID resilience.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
18 AUGUST 2021

