Bivalent Pfizer-biontech/comirnaty Vaccination to Start From 12 December
2022



BIVALENT PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY VACCINATION TO START FROM 12 DECEMBER 2022


Published Date: 06 Dec 2022

       From 12 December 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will roll
out the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19 vaccine at all
current Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccination locations for persons
aged 12 years and above.



2.   This follows the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination’s (EC19V)
recommendation to switch to the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
COVID-19 vaccine in place of the monovalent vaccine, for the primary
vaccination series and booster vaccination for persons aged 12 years and
above. The bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine continues to be available
for persons aged 18 years and above.



3.   Members of public who have already booked an appointment to
receive the monovalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine may choose to
re-schedule their appointments to a new date on or after 12 December, to
receive the updated bivalent vaccine.



UP-TO-DATE VACCINATION FOR PERSONS AGED 12 AND ABOVE



4.     Previously, all adults aged 18 years and above were recommended
to keep up to date with their COVID-19 vaccination. With the extension
of the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19 vaccine to 12 years
and above, persons aged 12 to 17 years should also receive an additional
bivalent vaccine dose around five months after their last booster dose.
The updated vaccination recommendations to meet the up-to-date
definition for persons aged 12 years and above is summarised in Annex A.



5.   Those who are eligible will receive an SMS with a personalised
booking link to make an appointment at their preferred location. We seek
your patience and understanding that the SMS may take a couple of weeks
to reach everyone.



6.     To avoid overcrowding the Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres
(JTVCs), we will only facilitate walk-ins for persons aged 50 years and
above and healthcare workers. With higher demand for vaccines, they are
advised to go during the less crowded hours from Mondays to Thursdays
before 6.30pm, and on Saturdays after 2pm. For a smoother experience,
walk-ins should be avoided during peak periods of Friday and Saturday
morning. Polyclinics will continue to only accept walk-ins for persons
aged 80 years and above.



7.     For added convenience, JTVCs are open from 9am to 7pm on Saturday
till end December. Please visit https://gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine to locate
the nearest JTVC, participating Public Health Preparedness Clinic or
Polyclinic providing COVID-19 vaccination.



PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY VACCINE FOR CHILDREN AGED 6 MONTHS TO 4 YEARS



8.     MOH has accepted EC19V’s recommendation that the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine may be used for the primary
vaccination series for children aged 6 months to 4 years, as an
alternative to the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for this age group. The
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty primary vaccination series for children aged 6
months to 4 years consists of three doses, each given eight weeks apart.
We will announce more details on the rollout at a later date.



9.     The protection conferred by our high vaccination rate has enabled
us to keep the number of severe cases and deaths much lower than in many
other countries. As new COVID-19 variants continue to emerge, we urge
those who are eligible to take the bivalent vaccine as an additional
vaccine dose, to ensure they continue to have good protection against
COVID-19.



MOBILE VACCINATION TEAMS IN THE HEARTLANDS



10.     Currently about 9 in 10 seniors aged 60 years and above have
achieved minimum protection, and 6 in 10 are up to date with their
COVID-19 vaccination. There are still close to 40,000 eligible seniors
who have not yet achieved minimum protection.



11.     To make it more convenient for seniors to get vaccinated and
boosted, from 12 December 2022, mobile vaccination teams (MVTs) will be
deployed to a number of heartland locations. These locations are:



·  Bukit Panjang Zone 3 RC

·  Chua Chu Kang CC

·  Hong Kah North CC

·  Kampong Chai Chee CC

·  Leng Kee CC

·  Potong Pasir Zone 3 RC

·  Teck Ghee CC

·  Toa Payoh Central CC



12.     The MVTs will be deployed at each site for three days before
moving on to the next location. Individuals may refer to Annex B or
visit https://gowhere.gov.sg for the MVT deployment schedule.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

6 DECEMBER 2022
