Singapore Recognised by World Health Organization for Rubella
Elimination



SINGAPORE RECOGNISED BY WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION FOR RUBELLA ELIMINATION


Published Date: 16 Sep 2022

Singapore has been recognised by the World Health Organization (WHO) for
meeting all its criteria for rubella elimination. This was made possible
because of our robust national immunisation programme, established
system of disease surveillance, and swift contact tracing and public
health response to cases.

2.  Rubella elimination is an indication that disease spread
is low and well controlled. Singapore has met all elimination criteria
set by WHO. These are:

      i.  Documented interruption of endemic rubella virus
transmission for a period of at least 36 months from the last endemic
case;

  ii.  Presence of verifiable, high quality surveillance; and

  iii.  Genotyping evidence that supports interrupted
transmission.

3.  Immunisation continues to be the best way to protect
children from vaccine-preventable disease like rubella. Singapore has
put in place a robust system to ensure high vaccination coverage in
children.

4.  Under the National Childhood Immunisation Schedule
(NCIS), young children receive two doses of rubella vaccine available in
the form of measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine, at 12 months old
and 15 months old respectively. Vaccinations in the NCIS are available
free to all Singaporean children at Community Health Assist Scheme
(CHAS) General Practitioner (GP) clinics and polyclinics.

5.  MMR vaccination coverage is closely monitored and
measures are in place to encourage uptake at various touch points. This
has resulted in high vaccination coverage in children aged two years and
older, contributing to a high level of immunity against rubella in the
community. As such, Singapore’s rubella incidence rate has remained
stable at less than 2 per 100,000 population over the last 10 years
(2012 to 2022).

6.   The Ministry of Health (MOH) has also set up a system of
surveillance and response actions for doctors to report rubella cases
promptly to control disease spread. Rubella is a legally notifiable
disease in Singapore. Doctors are required to notify a suspect case upon
clinical diagnosis and all notified cases of rubella are investigated by
MOH in a timely manner. The contacts are also followed up on their
health, and advised to seek medical treatment if unwell, and to get
their MMR vaccination if they have not done so.

7.  As pregnant women who are not immune to rubella are at
risk of severe complications such as miscarriage, stillbirth or birth
defects in foetus (known as congenital rubella syndrome) if infected,
they will be monitored for their birth outcome, and babies born to women
infected with rubella during pregnancy are evaluated for infection and
congenital rubella syndrome.

8.  Even with these measures, we can continue to expect to
have sporadic cases and small family clusters of rubella because the
disease is highly transmissible among unvaccinated individuals. Adults
who have not been vaccinated previously or do not have documented
immunity against rubella are also recommended to receive MMR vaccination
under the National Adult Immunisation Schedule.

