Confirmed Imported Case of Monkeypox In Singapore



CONFIRMED IMPORTED CASE OF MONKEYPOX IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 21 Jun 2022

             The Ministry of Health (MOH) has confirmed one imported
case of monkeypox infection in Singapore. The patient is
a 42-year-old male British national who works as a
flight attendant and was in Singapore between 15 and 17 June 2022 and
again on 19 June as he flew in and out of Singapore. He tested positive
for monkeypox on 20 June. He is currently warded in at the National
Centre for Infectious Diseases (NCID), and his condition is
stable. Contact tracing is ongoing.



2.  The case had onset of headache on 14 June, and fever on
16 June. These symptoms subsequently resolved, and he then developed
skin rashes on 19 June. He sought medical attention via teleconsultation
on the night of 19 June, and was conveyed to NCID on 20 June for further
assessment.



3.  Contact tracing is ongoing for the affected flights and
for the duration of his stay in Singapore. During this period, he had
largely remained in his hotel room, except to visit a massage
establishment, and eat at three food establishments on 16 June. In
general, the risk of transmission to visitors at these locations is low,
as data has shown that monkeypox transmits through close physical or
prolonged contact. All four locations visited by the case are undergoing
cleaning and disinfection.



4.  As of 21 June, 13 close contacts have been identified.
All close contacts will be placed on quarantine for 21 days since their
last contact with the case. In addition, two low-risk contacts have been
placed on phone surveillance. Persons under phone surveillance will
receive daily phone calls during the 21-day period to monitor for any
onset of symptoms. If suspected of being infected, they will be
immediately conveyed to the NCID for further evaluation and isolation to
prevent further transmission.



HEALTH ADVISORY



5.  Monkeypox is a viral disease that is caused by infection
with the monkeypox virus. Infected persons would typically experience
fever, headache, muscle ache, backache, swollen lymph nodes, chills,
lethargy and skin rash. The disease is usually self-limiting, with most
patients recovering within two to three weeks. In some cases, however,
the virus can cause serious complications. Individuals who are at higher
risk of severe illness include young children, pregnant women or
immunocompromised individuals.



6.  Human-to-human transmission is generally uncommon, but
can occur via exposure to respiratory droplets or direct physical
contact with the blood, body fluid or lesion material from infected
individual or contaminated materials. The incubation period ranges from
five to 21 days. People with the infection are generally infectious from
onset of fever until the skin lesions have scabbed over.



7.  Given the evolving global situation, members of the
public, especially travellers are advised to maintain vigilance and take
the following precautions:



路  Maintain a high standard of personal hygiene, including frequent
hand washing after going to the toilet, or when hands are soiled.



路  Avoid direct contact with skin lesions of infected living or dead
persons or animals, as well as objects that may have become contaminated
with infectious fluids, such as soiled clothing or linens (e.g. bedding
or towels) used by an infected person.



路  Avoid contact with wild animals that could harbour the virus, and
consumption of bush meat.



路  Seek immediate medical attention if they develop any disease
symptoms (e.g. sudden onset of high fever, swollen lymph nodes and rash)
compatible with monkeypox. They should inform their doctor of their
recent travel history, if any.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21 JUNE 2022
