Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends Booster Vaccination
for Adolescents Aged 12 to 17 Years



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS BOOSTER VACCINATION FOR ADOLESCENTS AGED 12 TO 17 YEARS


Published Date: 21 Jan 2022

  The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) recommends
to extend booster vaccination to adolescents aged 12 to 17 years.
Persons aged 12 to 17 years should receive a booster dose of the
Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccine (30 micrograms), as long as it has
been five months or longer after the last dose of their primary vaccine
course.
2.   Local and international data show that vaccine protection against
COVID-19 infection in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years wanes with time,
even if protection against severe illness remains robust. As with
adults, waning of protection against infection is observed for
adolescents by six months (or earlier) after their last dose of vaccine,
but more gradually when compared to adults.
3.   Data has also shown that booster vaccinations increase the
protection against infection by the Omicron variant, which appears more
transmissible than previous variants, and has caused COVID surges in
many countries. Booster vaccinations may also confer more robust
protection against future variants of concern that may emerge from time
to time.
4.   The safety profile and side effects of a Pfizer-BioNTech/
Comirnaty booster dose are comparable to that of the first two doses.
Local and international data also indicate that the risk of myocarditis
with a booster dose is comparable or lower than for the first two doses
of the Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccine.
5. Considering the benefits and safety profile of a booster vaccination
dose, the Committee recommends that adolescents aged 12 to 17 years
receive a booster dose (30 micrograms) of the Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty
vaccine as long as it has been five months or longer after the last dose
of their primary vaccine course, and to get the booster dose as soon as
it becomes available for them.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
21 JANUARY 2022

