Rollout of Nutri-grade Mark On 30 December 2022



ROLLOUT OF NUTRI-GRADE MARK ON 30 DECEMBER 2022


Published Date: 29 Dec 2022

     The mandatory nutrition labelling and advertising prohibition
measures for beverages sold in Singapore in prepacked form and from
automated beverage dispensers (collectively, “Nutri-Grade beverages”)
will come into effect on 30 December 2022. Nutri-Grade beverages will be
graded as “A”, “B”, “C” or “D”, according to their sugar and saturated
fat content.



2.     The Nutri-Grade beverages include beverages prepacked in bottles,
cans, cartons or packets; powders or concentrates such as 3-in-1 instant
coffee beverage and cordials; and beverages dispensed from automated
beverage dispensers such as fountain drinks and automated coffee
machines.



3.     From 30 December 2022, consumers can expect to see the following:



a)  Nutri-Grade beverages graded “C” or “D” will be labelled with a
Nutri-Grade mark, while labelling of beverages graded “A” or “B” and/or
products endorsed with the Healthier Choice Symbol (HCS) is optional;

[Nutri-Grade Mark Examples]



b)  Nutri-Grade beverages will carry a nutrition information panel
(NIP) specifying the energy value, the amounts of protein, carbohydrate,
fat, total sugar and saturated fat in the beverage; and



c)  Advertisements related to Nutri-Grade beverages graded “D” will be
prohibited, except in certain circumstances detailed in regulation
184F(2) in the Food Regulations.



4.     Since the announcement of the nutrition labelling and advertising
prohibition measures in October 2019, manufacturers have progressively
labelled their products with Nutri-Grade marks, reformulated their
beverages and introduced more lower-sugar and lower-fat choices ahead of
the implementation date.



5.     Overall, the median sugar level of prepacked Nutri-Grade
beverages has reduced from 7.1% in FY2017 to 4.6% in FY2021 and close to
two-thirds of these beverages in the market are now graded “A” or “B”.
This is more than double compared to FY2017, where only about 30% of
prepacked Nutri-Grade beverages in the market would have been graded “A”
or “B”. Currently, one in five beverages in the market is tagged with
HCS. These beverages are also graded “A” or “B”.



6.     We have seen an encouraging increase in the sales of beverages
which would have been graded “A” and “B”, from 37% in FY2017 to 71% in
FY2021. There are now more healthier alternatives such as low- and
zero-sugar options for sodas, Asian drinks and ready-to-drink teas. Some
higher sugar juices have been reformulated through mixing with
lower-sugar fruits and vegetables, or reconstituted to become a juice
drink. The range of healthier all-in-one coffees and teas with lower
saturated fat has also increased from 24% in FY2017 to 36% in FY2021.



7.     To reduce sugar intake, consumers are encouraged to limit their
intake of beverages labelled “C” or “D”, and choose healthier beverages
graded “A” or “B”, beverages labelled with HCS, or simply drink water
instead.



8.     Consumers can find more information about Nutri-Grade including
the list of healthier drinks graded “A” and “B” on HealthHub at
https://go.gov.sg/nutri-grade. Consumers can also expect to see
accompanying consumer educational messages at retail stores while
shopping in the coming months.



9.     The Ministry of Health and Health Promotion Board will extend
similar measures to freshly prepared beverages that are scheduled to
come into effect by end of 2023. More details will be released later.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

29 DECEMBER 2022




