Further Easing of Community and Border Measures



FURTHER EASING OF COMMUNITY AND BORDER MEASURES


Published Date: 22 Apr 2022

     It has been three weeks since we announced the easing of community
and border measures. Since then, daily infection numbers had continued
to fall and have stabilised. Therefore, this gives us confidence to
proceed with further easing of several community and travel measures.
While this represents a significant step in our return to normalcy, the
pandemic is not over. In particular, we must recognise the risks ahead
and continue to take necessary precautions, including getting ourselves
vaccinated and boosted. We also need to stay alert and stand ready to
respond if new variants surface or if the public health situation takes
a turn for the worse.



UPDATES ON THE LOCAL SITUATION



2.      Daily case numbers and COVID-19 hospitalisations had declined
steadily in the past week. The 7-day moving average of daily local case
numbers has fallen from around 18,300 at its peak to under 3,100 in the
past week. More importantly, the number of hospitalisations has fallen
from 1,726 at its peak to 266. COVID-19 related Intensive Care Unit
(ICU) patients is now in single digits. The incidence of severe illness
has also remained low. In the past 28 days, 0.03% and 0.2% of local
cases required ICU care and oxygen supplementation respectively.



STEP DOWN TO DORSCON YELLOW



3.      The Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (DORSCON)
framework gives indication of the current disease situation. Given the
improving local situation, with daily cases falling and stabilising; the
impact of the disease has been mitigated by high levels of vaccination;
and the disease is typically mild, except in the unvaccinated and
vulnerable groups such as the elderly¹ ; and the progressive easing of
SMMs, the DORSCON level will be adjusted from Orange to Yellow.



UPDATES ON COMMUNITY SMMS



SMM 1–5 Framework

4.     From 26 APRIL 2022, we will implement the following adjustments
(see Annex A for more details):

a. Group Sizes. There will NO LONGER BE A GROUP SIZE LIMIT, meaning that
individuals will not be required to keep to a group of 10 persons for
mask-off activities. The cap on the number of unique visitors per
household, previously 10 persons at any one time, will also be lifted2.
b. Mask-Wearing. MASK-WEARING WILL CONTINUE TO BE REQUIRED IN INDOOR
SETTINGS WHEN PEOPLE LEAVE THEIR HOMES, INCLUDING ON PUBLIC TRANSPORT.
MASK-WEARING WILL REMAIN OPTIONAL IN OUTDOOR SETTINGS. However, we
encourage individuals to exercise precaution. For example, in crowded
outdoor areas, it will still be a good idea to wear our masks.
c. Workplace Requirements. ALL WORKERS MAY NOW RETURN TO THE WORKPLACE,
an increase from the current limit of 75% of those who can work from
home. Notwithstanding the mask-on requirement in indoor settings,
workers will be allowed to remove their masks at the workplace: (i) when
they are not interacting physically with others and (ii) when they are
not in customer-facing areas. While this concession will provide some
flexibility for workers as more return to the workplace, everyone is
advised to exercise social responsibility and maintain an appropriate
safe distance from others while unmasked. Even with these changes, we
encourage employers to retain and promote flexible work arrangements,
such as telecommuting and staggered work hours, as a permanent feature
of the workplace. Beyond the workplace benefits of flexible work
arrangements, this will also help workers avoid peak period crowds as
more of us return to the workplace.
d. Safe Distancing. As group size limits are lifted, SAFE DISTANCING
WILL NO LONGER BE REQUIRED BETWEEN INDIVIDUALS OR BETWEEN GROUPS.
e. Capacity Limits. Previously, larger settings/events with >1,000 pax
and that are mask-on were subject to a capacity limit of 75%. WE WILL
NOW REMOVE THIS CAPACITY LIMIT FOR SUCH SETTINGS/EVENTS³.





Given the above changes, most of SMMs 1-5, except indoor masking
requirement, will be inactivated. However, this does not mean that they
become moribund. SMMs 1-5 continue to serve as the key levers to
regulate social interactions, and the parameters can be adjusted if the
situation requires it.

Other Adjustments to Community Measures



5.     Vaccination-Differentiated SMMs (VDS). Our vaccination coverage
is amongst the highest in the world at 96% of our eligible population.
With cases and hospitalisations steadily declining, our hospitals and
healthcare workers are adjusting to handle their higher clinical
workload from non-COVID-19 patients. As such, we are now in a position
to ease VDS.



6.     HENCE, FROM 26 APRIL 2022, VDS WILL BE REMOVED FROM ALL
SETTINGS, EXCEPT FOR:



a. Events with >500 participants at any one time;
b. Nightlife establishments where dancing among patrons is one of the
intended activities; and
c. Food and beverage (F&B) establishments, including restaurants, coffee
shops and hawker centres.





These are settings which are assessed to pose higher risks of
transmission due to factors such as large crowds and unmasked
activities.



7.     Specific to F&B establishments, while VDS is still required,
these establishments will no longer need to conduct VDS checks for their
customers. This is already the case for hawker centres and coffee shops.
Instead, the onus will be on the individuals dining in to abide by the
rules. Random spot-checks will continue to be conducted to ensure that
only fully vaccinated persons are dining in at F&B establishments.



8.     Workforce Vaccination Measures (WVM) implemented by the Ministry
of Manpower (MOM) will also be lifted. Nevertheless, given that the
pandemic is not over and there are still significant risks in the coming
months, tripartite partners have agreed that employers should have the
flexibility to continue implementing vaccination-related instructions
for employees for workplace health and safety and business continuity
reasons, and in accordance with employment law. MOM will provide further
details.



9.     Stopping Health Risk Notices (HRNs). Given the improved
situation, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will stop issuing HRNs to close
contacts from 26 April 2022. Individuals infected with COVID-19 will no
longer need to submit details of household contacts online. However,
persons should continue to exercise social responsibility. For example,
COVID-19 positive persons should inform their close contacts so that the
contacts can take the necessary precautions under Protocol 3, i.e. test
themselves to be negative before leaving their homes, to prevent further
spread. Settings with vulnerable persons (e.g. hospitals, nursing homes
and elderly homes) should request proof of a negative Antigen Rapid Test
(ART) result for persons with recent exposure before allowing entry.



10.     Stepping down on the use of TraceTogether (TT) and SafeEntry
(SE). As HRNs will no longer be issued, COVID-19 cases need not upload
their TT data or submit their TT token from 26 April 2022. Most venues
will also no longer require the public to check in using the TT
application or token, except larger events with more than 500
participants at any one time and certain nightlife establishments, where
VDS checks are still required at entry. The TT/SE capabilities will be
maintained as a means of conducting these VDS checks, and to enable us
to rapidly step up contact tracing and VDS checks should we need to do
so again in response to a new Variant of Concern. The public is
therefore strongly encouraged to keep the TT application on their phones
as well as their TT tokens.



11.     As in current practice as explained in Parliament on 2 February
2021, any generated TT or SE data may continue to be used by police
officers and law enforcement officers for criminal investigations and
proceedings in respect of serious offences. This is provided for in the
COVID-19 (Temporary Measures) Act. In order to safeguard the public, the
Police must be able to use this available data to bring perpetrators to
justice and seek redress for victims.



12.     Stopping of free community ART testing and weekend Acute
Respiratory Infection (ARI) testing at the Combined Test Centres (CTCs)
and Quick Test Centres (QTCs). We had previously provided free community
ART testing and weekend ARI testing at our CTCs and QTCs during the
Omicron wave to alleviate the workload at GP clinics and other
healthcare facilities. With the declining case numbers and easing of
load at the Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs), these free tests
will cease from 26 April 2022 onwards. Paid ART testing will still be
available for members of the public at the CTCs/QTCs, GP clinics or via
tele-ART providers
(https://www.moh.gov.sg/licensing-and-regulation/regulations-guidelines-and-circulars/details/list-of-covid-19-swab-providers).



UPDATES ON BORDER MEASURES



Removal of Pre-Departure Test Requirements

13.     We had earlier launched the Vaccinated Travel Framework, which
allowed all fully vaccinated travellers⁴ to enter Singapore without
serving a Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or applying for entry approvals. Fully
vaccinated travellers arriving via land checkpoints are also not
required to take pre-departure or on-arrival COVID-19 tests, while those
arriving via air or sea checkpoints are currently subject to a
pre-departure test (PDT) within 2 days before departure for Singapore.



14.     We have continued to monitor the local and global COVID-19
situation following the launch of the Vaccinated Travel Framework, and
will revise our requirements. All fully vaccinated travellers
and non-fully vaccinated children aged 12 and below arriving from 26
APRIL 2022, 0001 HOURS via air or sea checkpoints, will also no longer
be required to take a PDT before departing for Singapore⁵. With this
move, it will mean that fully vaccinated and well travellers will not
require any tests to enter Singapore. In addition, from 1 May 2022,
fully vaccinated non-Malaysian Work Permit Holders no longer need to
apply for entry approvals to enter Singapore.



15.     In addition, non-Malaysian Work Permit Holders (WPHs) holding
an In-Principle Approval (IPA) in the Construction, Marine Shipyard and
Process (CMP) sectors are currently required to obtain entry approvals
from the Ministry of Manpower (MOM). From 1 MAY 2022, fully vaccinated
non-Malaysian WPHs holding an IPA in the CMP sectors no longer need to
apply for entry approvals to come into Singapore. Instead, they will
need to book a slot at the Onboard centre to undergo onboarding upon
arrival. Please refer to the MOM website for details.



16.     Entry requirements for non-fully vaccinated travellers remain
unchanged. All non-fully vaccinated travellers aged 13 and above who are
allowed to enter Singapore are required to take a PDT within 2 days
before departure for Singapore⁶, undergo a 7-day SHN, and take a
Polymerase Chain Reaction COVID-19 test at the end of their SHN period.



17.     Non-fully vaccinated Long-Term Pass Holders (LTPHs) and
Short-Term Visitors (STVs) aged 13 and above are not allowed to enter
Singapore, with the following exceptions: (i) LTPHs medically ineligible
for vaccines; (ii) LTPHs and STVs with other valid entry approval (e.g.
for compassionate reasons); and (iii) LTPHs aged 13 to 17, subject to
the appropriate measures⁷.



18.     Given the increased availability of vaccines globally for those
aged between 13 and 17, all LTPHs aged 13 and above arriving from 1 July
2022 will be required to be fully vaccinated prior to entry into
Singapore, unless medically ineligible for vaccines.



Resumption of Cross-Border Bus Services and Taxis with Malaysia

19.     Following the reopening of Singapore and Malaysia land borders
for fully vaccinated travellers, the Land Transport Authority (LTA),
together with the public transport operators, will resume the operation
of cross-border bus services from 1 MAY 2022. Starting next month,
Singapore bus operators will reinstate cross-border bus services between
Singapore and Johor Bahru. These include Services 160, 170 and 170X
operated by SBS Transit Ltd, Service 950 operated by SMRT Buses Ltd, and
Services TS1, TS3, TS6 and TS8 operated by Transtar Travel Pte Ltd.

20.     Cross-border taxi operations will also resume from 1 MAY
2022. Commuters travelling to Johor can either board a taxi at the Queen
Street taxi terminal or book one through taxi companies with licensed
cross-border taxi drivers.



21.     More details on the resumption of cross-border bus services and
cross-border taxi operations can be found in LTA’s news release.



22.     Please see Annex B for details on the border measures for
travellers arriving from 26 APRIL 2022, 0001 HOURS. The latest border
requirements can be found on the SafeTravel
website (https://safetravel.ica.gov.sg). Travellers are strongly advised
to visit the website to check the latest border measures before entering
Singapore, and be prepared to adhere to the prevailing border measures
upon entry into Singapore.



EXPANSION OF COMMUNITY VISITS FOR MIGRANT WORKERS



23.     From 26 April 2022, up to 25,000 migrant workers will be able
to visit the community on weekdays, and up to 50,000 on weekends and
public holidays, for up to 8 hours per visit. This is an increase from
the current quotas of 15,000 on weekdays, and 30,000 on weekends and
public holidays.



24.     With the lifting of VDS in most settings, unvaccinated migrant
workers will now be allowed to participate in community visits.
Unvaccinated migrant workers will not be required to apply for exit
passes or take Pre-Visit Tests before going to Recreation Centres.



25.     To manage overcrowding at popular locations, migrant workers
will still need to apply for exit passes and indicate their selected
locations in the community. MOM will monitor the application numbers and
continue to conduct regular checks at potential congregation hotspots.

BOOSTER VACCINATION



26.     Vaccination remains a critical tool in protecting our
population from severe disease due to COVID-19. The Expert Committee on
COVID-19 (EC19V) has recommended a booster dose for recovered persons
aged 12 and above who have completed their primary vaccination, in view
of waning immunity. This booster should not be delayed beyond 9 months
after completing their primary vaccination series, and should be
received at least 28 days after the infection. From 1 JUNE 2022, these
recovered persons will need to receive the booster dose within 9 months
of their last primary vaccination dose, in order to maintain their
vaccinated status. Individuals may walk into any Vaccination Centre,
before 7pm, to receive their booster dose.



27.     Booster vaccination for all recovered dormitory dwelling
Migrant Workers (MWs) and non-dormitory dwelling work-permit holder MWs
in the Construction, Marine Shipyard and Process (CMP) sector will be
scheduled and announced later.



28.     For persons aged 60 to 79 years, while the EC19V is not
recommending that they receive as a second booster shot, the Committee
agreed to offer it to them should they wish to take it. The second
booster vaccine dose should be administered about five months after
receiving the first booster. This is in addition to the earlier
recommendation of a second booster for specific groups (age 80 and
above, residents of aged care facilities, and the medically vulnerable).
Persons aged 60 and above can receive their second booster by walking
into any Vaccination Centre offering mRNA vaccines, before 7pm.



CONSOLIDATION OF VACCINATION CENTRES



29.     As of 21 April 2022, over 92% of our total population have
completed their primary vaccination series and 73% have received their
booster doses. With the number of doses administered reducing steadily
over the past weeks, MOH will progressively step down the number of
Vaccination Centres (VCs) from end-May 2022, to consolidate our
resources and free up these spaces for other uses.

a. For VCs ceasing operations on 31 May 2022 (Annex C):

i. VCs offering the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine will administer the last
Dose 1 on 2 May 2022.
ii. VCs offering the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine will administer
the last Dose 1 on 10 May 2022.
iii. Dose 2 and booster doses will continue to be administered until 31
May 2022.





b. For VCs ceasing operations on 30 June 2022 (Annex C):

i. VCs offering the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine will administer the last
Dose 1 on 2 June 2022.
ii. VCs offering the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine will administer
the last Dose 1 on 9 June 2022.
iii. Dose 2 and booster doses will continue to be administered until 30
June 2022.





30.     The VCs at Former Hong Kah Secondary School and Raffles City
Convention Centre will remain in operation. We will continue to ensure
the availability of COVID-19 vaccinations by consolidating our resources
into several Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres. We will share more
details in due course.



31.     We urge individuals who are eligible for vaccinations or
boosters to take full advantage of the capacity and good geographical
spread of our VCs while they are still in operation. The public may
refer to https://www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations-vcs for more details on
the closures.



VACCINATIONS AND BOOSTERS FOR TRAVELLERS



32.     We had previously announced that we will enable short term
travellers to pay to receive COVID-19 vaccinations and boosters in
Singapore. Individuals may now receive the Moderna vaccine under the
Private Vaccination Programme (PVP) at Healthway Medical at Kwong Wai
Shiu Hospital. Interested individuals may contact the clinic directly.



33.     We are progressively onboarding more clinics to the PVP. The
list of participating clinics can be found
at https://www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations/pvp.



SAFEGUARDING RESOURCES AT THE EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT



34.     Even as the case numbers decline, we would like to remind the
public to avoid overwhelming our Emergency Departments (EDs). Medical
treatment at an ED should be reserved for those with severe or
life-threatening emergencies. Patients with non-emergency conditions
should seek care at primary care clinics to avoid crowding the EDs and
delaying the care for those with severe and life-threatening conditions.



35.     To safeguard resources at the ED, individuals who require
COVID-19 testing or who have tested COVID-positive with mild symptoms
should first seek help through their regular primary care doctors or
MOH-approved telemedicine providers. Patients, regardless of vaccination
status, who walk in to the ED for the purpose of COVID-19 testing
without a valid GP/polyclinic referral or for non-emergency COVID-19
treatment⁸ will be required to pay for their ED bills.



TOWARDS COVID-19 RESILIENCY



36.     This round of SMM easing and our transition to DORSCON Yellow
is a milestone in our progress towards living with COVID-19 and was
built on the sacrifices of our healthcare workers and the collective
support of all Singaporeans. However, the situation can change quickly
in the face of new variants. Hence, we urge everyone to remain socially
responsible and vigilant even as we take strides towards normalcy.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

22 APRIL 2022



------------------------------------------------------------------------



[1] Data show that COVID-19 is a mild disease in children. For Omicron,
0.014% of cases aged 0-11 years old had illness requiring oxygen
supplementation or ICU care.

[2] The attendee limits for home solemnisations and home funerals will
also be lifted.

[3] All nightlife businesses where dancing among patrons is one of the
intended activities will continue to be subject to a 75% capacity limit.

[4] Please refer
to https://safetravel.ica.gov.sg/arriving/overview#vaccination for the
definition of a fully vaccinated traveller.

[5] From 1 MAY 2022, non-Malaysian WPHs holding an IPA will need to
undergo a two-day Pre-Departure Preparatory Programme (PDPP), if PDPP is
available in their source countries (currently Bangladesh, India and
Myanmar), before entering Singapore. More details of the PDPP and the
list of PDPP providers can be found here.

[6]The following PDTs are accepted:Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) test,
professionally administered Antigen-Rapid Test (ART) or ARTs supervised
by licensed Singapore providers (including remotely supervised ARTs).
Please refer to https://go.gov.sg/remote-art-overseas-sg for a list of
approved remotely supervised ART PDT providers.

[7] Non-fully vaccinated LTPHs aged 13 – 17 years entering Singapore
should complete the full vaccination regime after arriving in Singapore.

[8]These refer to cases who walk in to EDs without a referral from a
doctor or telemedicine provider, or have symptoms that do not require
hospital admission.




