Precautionary Tuberculosis Screening for Residents of 2 Jalan Bukit
Merah



PRECAUTIONARY TUBERCULOSIS SCREENING FOR RESIDENTS OF 2 JALAN BUKIT MERAH


Published Date: 21 May 2022

         The Ministry of Health (MOH) will offer voluntary Tuberculosis
(TB) screening to current and former residents of Block 2 Jalan Bukit
Merah, as well as stallholders, shop owners and their employees at that
location. This is a precautionary measure following the detection of a
cluster of seven individuals diagnosed with TB¹ residing in seven
different units at the block. The screening will be conducted free of
charge and will take place from 27 to 31 May 2022.



2.  Residents, stallholders, shop owners and employees of
Block 2 Jalan Bukit Merah are strongly encouraged to participate in the
TB screening. For the convenience of residents, mobile teams will go to
their home to carry out the screening. A screening station located at
the Queenstown Hock San Zone Residents’ Committee (RC) Centre at Block 3
Jalan Bukit Merah will also be set up for those working at the shops and
stalls, as well as to cater to residents whose homes are not suitable
for screening. Former residents and subtenants who had resided in the
block from October 2020 will be contacted via phone call in June 2022
and offered screening at the TB Control Unit  (TBCU). Former residents
who had lived in the block from October 2020 and wish to be screened,
may also call the TBCU Contact Clinic appointment hotline at 6258 4430.



3.  The risk of transmission to persons who are not close
contacts of a TB case is very low. Screening is thus not necessary for
individuals who had occasionally visited the block or vicinity.



4.  Staff from the National Centre for Infectious Diseases
(NCID), with support from the People’s Association, will be conducting
visits to all units at the affected block from 21 to 23 May 2022 to
engage residents, as well as shop and stall owners and employees, and
encourage them to participate in the screening. While screening is not
compulsory, MOH strongly encourages residents to be screened to
determine if they have TB disease or infection (which is
non-infectious). Persons with positive screening results will be offered
appropriate advice and follow-up. Those with TB disease will be treated
immediately while those with TB infection will be given appointments at
the TBCU and offered treatment to minimise their risk of developing TB
disease in the future.



IDENTIFICATION OF TB CLUSTER



5.  MOH was notified on 2 March 2022 of seven TB cases
involving residents of Block 2 Jalan Bukit Merah, who were diagnosed
between February 2021 and March 2022. All seven individuals live in
different units of Block 2 Jalan Bukit Merah. The cases were immediately
started on treatment following diagnosis. Amongst them, two have
completed treatment, three are currently undergoing treatment while two
are deceased from causes not due to TB. As individuals diagnosed with TB
will rapidly become non-infectious once treatment starts, the cases are
not an ongoing public health risk.



6.  In line with MOH’s TB prevention strategy, the National
TB Programme had initiated contact investigations for each of the seven
cases shortly after they were notified. Close contacts of the cases were
identified and contacted for screening. Investigations for each of the
seven cases at the time of their diagnosis did not identify each other
as close contacts.



7.  Genetic analysis and links, established in April 2022,
revealed that all seven cases have similar genetic make-up. This
suggests that these cases are linked by spread from one or more common
sources. Investigations into the cases did not reveal any common links,
other than that they live in the same block. The cases did not know or
interact with one another, or congregate at the same common areas, and
had also not identified each other as close contacts. Therefore, as a
precaution, we are offering screening for those in the block to diagnose
any TB cases that may be present for early treatment.



HEALTH ADVISORY



8.  The symptoms of TB disease include persistent cough that
lasts 3 weeks or longer, low-grade fever, night sweats, fatigue, weight
loss and chest pain. TB is typically spread through close and prolonged
contact with an infectious individual, and not by contact with items or
surfaces touched by a person with TB. Therefore, persons who are
contacted and screened following the detection of a TB individual
typically comprise family members, close workplace colleagues and
acquaintances from common social activities with close and regular
interaction. This approach is recommended by the World Health
Organization (WHO) and is practised in Singapore. Please refer to the
Annex for details of TB.



9.   TB is endemic in Singapore. TB infection is not uncommon
in our population, as TB had been prevalent in Singapore until the 1970s
and older Singaporeans could have been exposed to TB and acquired TB
infection when they were younger. Persons with TB infection do not
experience symptoms of TB and are not infectious.



10.  TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable. Early
detection and prompt treatment of cases remain important in helping
those infected and rendering them non-infectious. For individuals
diagnosed with TB disease, adherence to treatment is important.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

21 MAY 2022

[1] TB can be cured with anti-TB drugs. Treatment of TB disease, which
is sensitive to first-line anti-TB drugs, usually involves a combination
of different drugs, taken for six to nine months.
