Investing In Enablers and Infrastructure to Support Healthcare
Transformation



INVESTING IN ENABLERS AND INFRASTRUCTURE TO SUPPORT HEALTHCARE TRANSFORMATION


Published Date: 09 Mar 2022

   The Ministry of Health (MOH) will further invest in enablers such as
IT and innovation, as well as in infrastructure, which form critical
supporting pillars of our healthcare system. This will support our
healthcare transformation efforts and future-proof the healthcare
system.
INVESTING IN INFRASTRUCTURE TO FUTURE-PROOF OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM
_POLYCLINIC DEVELOPMENT PLANS
_2.  _ _We had previously announced that we will expand our network of
polyclinics to 32 [1]. A summary of our plans is as follows, of which
those underlined are new announcements this year:
NEW POLYCLINICS
a)   Sembawang Polyclinic, which is being developed as part of the Bukit
Canberra integrated development, will open in 2022;
b)   Six polyclinics planned in Kaki Bukit, Khatib, Serangoon, Tampines
North, Tengah and Yew Tee are scheduled to be completed by 2026; and
c)   Three more polyclinics planned in Bidadari, Bishan and Taman
Jurong are scheduled to be completed by 2030.
POLYCLINIC REDEVELOPMENTS
a)   Pasir Ris, Clementi and Queenstown Polyclinics will be redeveloped
by 2026, 2027 and 2030 respectively; and
b)   Bukit Merah Polyclinic and Outram Polyclinic will be consolidated
into a larger polyclinic in Tiong Bahru by 2030.
_NEW POLYCLINIC IN TAMAN JURONG AND REDEVELOPMENT OF QUEENSTOWN
POLYCLINIC
_3.  _ _To meet the healthcare needs of our population, MOH will
continue to invest in our primary care infrastructure. We will open a
new polyclinic in Taman Jurong by 2028. Together with Pioneer and Jurong
Polyclinics, the polyclinic in Taman Jurong will serve residents in the
Jurong planning region.

4.   We will also redevelop Queenstown Polyclinic at a new site by the
end of the decade. The existing Queenstown Polyclinic will serve
residents living in the vicinity until the redeveloped Queenstown
Polyclinic is operational.
5.   The polyclinic in Taman Jurong and the redeveloped Queenstown
Polyclinic will incorporate elderly-friendly and accessibility features
for the convenience of the patients, and incorporate new requirements to
ensure that the infrastructure is pandemic-ready. Both polyclinics will
provide a comprehensive range of primary care services such as medical
treatment for acute conditions, chronic disease management, women’s and
children’s health services, allied health services, as well as
radiological, laboratory and pharmacy services. We will share more
details when ready.
TECHNOLOGY AND DATA AS AN ENABLER FOR BETTER HEALTH
_LEVERAGING TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER BETTER CARE
_6.   During the COVID-19 pandemic, telehealth technology solutions were
deployed to meet the heightened demand for healthcare services.
Accelerated by the pandemic, we will continue to leverage tele-treatment
and tele-monitoring technologies to enhance convenience of care and
improve overall health outcomes:
a)   COVID-19 Virtual Ward;
b)   Mobile Inpatient Care at Home (MIC@Home) sandbox; and
c)   Primary Tech-Enhanced Care (PTEC) Home Blood Pressure (BP)
Monitoring.

_COVID-19 Virtual Ward
_7.  _ _Daily reminders are sent via a chatbot or phone call for
COVID-19 patients to measure and submit their vital sign readings, such
as their body temperature and blood pressure. This has helped more than
700 patients on home recovery, and saved more than 5,000 physical bed
days.
_MIC@Home sandbox
_8.   With the results achieved from the Virtual Ward programme, MOH
will extend the programme to other groups of non-COVID-19 hospital
patients under MIC@Home, which is suitable for patients who are
typically stable, but still require hospitalisation to manage their
active medical issues until they are fit for discharge. The MIC@Home
mobile care teams will deliver selected inpatient-level services at
home, including teleconsultation, remote vital signs monitoring, regular
visits by doctors, nurses and therapists, intravenous therapy and simple
blood investigations.
9.   About 2,000 suitable patients will be enrolled into the programme
over two years, starting in the first half of 2022. MOH will then study
the implementation of the sandbox programme before considering scaling
it up to a mainstream medical service model to complement inpatient
hospital care for suitable patients.
_PTEC Home BP Monitoring
_10.   Patients with chronic diseases visit polyclinics regularly to
better manage their conditions. The PTEC Home BP Monitoring programme
was developed to provide remote care support with easy-to-use
technologies for those with chronic high blood pressure so as to help
patients better self-manage their conditions with reduced visits to
polyclinics.
11.   Patients enrolled in the programme will receive Bluetooth-enabled
home BP devices to monitor their blood pressure regularly. These
readings are automatically transmitted via a mobile application to the
polyclinic care team, who will then follow up with teleconsultations.
12.   The PTEC Home BP Monitoring programme was officially rolled out at
Ang Mo Kio Polyclinic in August 2020, following a one-year pilot. The
programme was also introduced at Bedok Polyclinic in October 2020 and is
being implemented at Clementi Polyclinic this year. The roll-out across
the polyclinics island-wide is expected to be completed by 2023. The
programme will also progressively include other chronic diseases such as
diabetes.
_USE OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR EARLY DETECTION OF DEMENTIA
_13._   _Currently, one in 10 local seniors aged 60 years and above has
dementia. Usually, a large proportion of our seniors and their
caregivers are caught unaware until the seniors have reached a more
advanced stage of the disease, missing the opportunity for early
intervention. This is partly due to early symptoms being subtle, and
requiring specialised tests, which can only be administered by a trained
healthcare professional in a hospital of clinic.

14.   Project Pensieve is a technology-driven initiative that supports
earlier detection of dementia among seniors who are at high risk of the
disease. Tapping on local clinical and technology expertise, an
inter-agency team is developing a digital drawing test to estimate the
risk of dementia automatically using artificial intelligence in just
about 10 minutes.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
9 MARCH 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]  Currently, there are 23 polyclinics, and our target of 32
polyclinics will be achieved after consolidating Bukit Merah Polyclinic
and Outram Polyclinic into a larger new polyclinic in Tiong Bahru by
2030.
