Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends A Booster Dose of
Covid-19 Vaccine for Recovered Persons



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS A BOOSTER DOSE OF COVID-19 VACCINE FOR RECOVERED PERSONS


Published Date: 22 Apr 2022

1.      The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) recommends
that persons aged 12 years and above who have completed their primary
vaccination series and recovered from COVID-19 infection should receive
a COVID-19 booster vaccine dose. The booster dose may be received from
about 28 days after the infection, and should not be delayed beyond nine
months after completing their primary vaccine course.
2.     There has been recent evidence that immune protection in
recovered persons who are vaccinated can vary between individuals and
wanes with time. Booster vaccination is safe in recovered persons and
helps maintain a high level of protection against severe disease. Hence,
persons aged 12 years and above, who had previously completed their
primary vaccination series and recovered from a COVID-19 infection, are
now recommended to receive a COVID-19 booster.
3.     With this new recommendation, a booster dose is now being
recommended for all persons aged 12 years and above, regardless of
whether they had a previous COVID-19 infection.
SECOND BOOSTER CAN BE OFFERED TO PERSONS AGED 60-79 YEARS
4.     To provide additional protection against severe COVID-19, a
second COVID-19 booster has been recommended for the following groups of
persons, who are most at-risk for severe disease and the waning of
vaccine effectiveness:

a.       All persons aged 80 years and above;
b.       Persons living in aged care facilities, such as nursing homes;
and
c.        Medically vulnerable persons who are at increased risk of
severe disease due to significant medical risk factors¹.

5.     A proportion of our seniors aged 60 to 79 years may have
underlying medical conditions, and may themselves be concerned about
their increased risk of severe disease. Considering this, a second
booster can also be offered to persons aged 60 to 79 years who wish to
be vaccinated.
6.     EC19V encourages all eligible persons recommended to receive
booster vaccination(s) to do so with an mRNA vaccine (i.e.,
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty or Moderna/Spikevax vaccines) because of
better vaccine effectiveness.

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
22 APRIL 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Vulnerable persons are individuals who are at increased risk of
severe disease due to significant medical risk factors. These include
persons with chronic diseases of the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver and
other organ systems.
