Update On Public Consultation by the Interagency Taskforce On Mental
Health and Well-being



UPDATE ON PUBLIC CONSULTATION BY THE INTERAGENCY TASKFORCE ON MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING


Published Date: 25 Jul 2022

          Over 800 individuals have taken part in the public
consultation conducted by the Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and
Well-being to seek views on its preliminary recommendations to enhance
the mental health and well-being of Singaporeans. Dr Janil Puthucheary,
Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Health, shared this on the
sidelines of a visit to a small group engagement session on 25 July 2022
with staff and frontline practitioners of social service agencies.



2.  Since 30 May 2022, the Taskforce has been engaging
members of the public and key stakeholders on 12 preliminary
recommendations spanning across three focus areas:



(a)  Improving accessibility, coordination and quality of mental health
services;

(b)  Strengthening services and support for youth mental well-being;
and

(c)  Improving workplace well-being measures and employment support.



Please refer to the Annex for the 12 preliminary recommendations.



3.  To date, over 400 individuals representing stakeholders
across different profiles and sectors have taken part in the small group
engagement sessions. These stakeholders include youths, parents,
healthcare institutions, social service agencies, employers, and persons
with mental health conditions and their caregivers. In addition, close
to 400 individuals have contributed their views through the online
survey hosted on the REACH website.



4.  The feedback received from respondents on the preliminary
recommendations has been generally constructive and positive. For
example,



a)  Focus Area 1 - Accessibility, coordination and quality of mental
health services: Stakeholders welcomed the suggestion for frontline
workers to be equipped with mental health skills and knowledge to better
identify signs and symptoms of mental health distress among their
clients. The respondents indicated that such training in mental health
would enable them to be more effective and confident at encouraging
their clients with needs to seek help.



b)  Focus Area 2 - Strengthening mental health services and support
for clients: Stakeholders agreed that the proposed care model which
provides a tiered system of mental health services would be useful to
cater to the varying mental health needs of the population. It would
also allow clients to access quality care that is appropriate to their
needs in a timely manner. The tiered system would need to be accompanied
with relevant enablers, such as a common competency framework for staff
to guide manpower training and development, and as well as standardised
assessment and referral processes, to be implemented.



c)  Focus Area 3 – Improving employment support for persons with
mental health conditions: Feedback garnered called for a shift in mental
model away from a one-size-fits-all approach, to one that actively
supports customisation of vocational training and in-employment support,
to better meet the needs of every individual. Beyond increasing
awareness of mental health and well-being practices among organisations,
it is also important to facilitate the translation of knowledge into
supportive behaviours for leaders, supervisors and co-workers.



5.  We will continue to collate feedback from more
stakeholders in the upcoming small group engagements and the REACH
portal. The feedback will allow us to finetune preliminary
recommendations and ensure that they are relevant to the population.



6.  The public consultation on the Taskforce’s preliminary
recommendations will be held until 7 August 2022. We encourage more to
step forward to share their views with us via go.gov.sg/mental-health.
Findings from the public consultation will go towards the development of
the National Mental Health and Well-being Strategy, which will be
published next year.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
25 JULY 2022


