Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye Kung to Attend 75th World Health Assembly
In Geneva, Switzerland



MINISTER FOR HEALTH MR ONG YE KUNG TO ATTEND 75TH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY IN GENEVA, SWITZERLAND


Published Date: 20 May 2022

          Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye Kung will lead the Singapore
delegation for the 75th World Health Assembly in Geneva, Switzerland
from 22 to 26 May 2022. At the Assembly, Singapore will be tabling its
resolution _Strengthening Health Emergency Preparedness and Response in
Cities and Urban Settings_.



2.          Singapore urges Member States to invest in urban health
emergency preparedness, and to take a whole-of-government and
multi-sectoral approach in planning and response. As a city-state deeply
aware of the challenges that infectious threats bring to urban settings,
Singapore has been working with the World Health Organization (WHO) on
the area of preparedness in cities and urban settings even before
COVID-19. The adoption of Singapore’s resolution, which is its first at
the World Health Assembly, will signal Member States’ support for the
implementation of the WHO Framework for Strengthening Health Emergency
Preparedness in Cities and Urban Settings, which was launched in January
2022 by Singapore and the WHO.



3.          The World Health Assembly is WHO’s highest decision-making
body. Held annually, it sets out WHO’s policy and approves its budget.
Attendees include Health Ministers from WHO Member States, WHO
Director-General, Regional-Directors of the six WHO Regions, and senior
officials from Member States and WHO. The theme for this year’s World
Health Assembly is ‘Health for Peace, Peace for Health’.



4.          This year, the World Health Assembly will discuss key public
health issues including:



a.          Paradigm shift towards preventive care and health promotion;

b.          Reorientation of health systems towards primary health care
as the foundation of universal health coverage; and

c.          Health emergency preparedness, response and resilience,
including in cities and urban settings.

5.          Mr Ong will also meet with WHO Director-General Dr Tedros
Adhanom Ghebreyesus and other counterparts during the visit. He will be
accompanied by senior officials from the Ministry of Health.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
20 MAY 2022
