Update On Hiv/aids Situation In Singapore 2022 (december 2022)



UPDATE ON HIV/AIDS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE 2022 (DECEMBER 2022)


Published Date: 01 Dec 2022

_Everyone should know their HIV status. At-risk individuals should go
for regular HIV testing._



A total of 171 newly diagnosed cases of human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV) infections were reported among Singapore residents[1] in the first
10 months (January – October) of 2022. The number of notifications is
14% lower than the number of cases in the same period in 2021.



2.  The Ministry of Health (MOH) has analysed 102 cases that
were reported in the first six months (January – June) of 2022. Of these
cases:



i.  93% were male;

ii.  40% were 20-39 years and 44% were 40-59 years; and

iii.  59% had late-stage HIV infection[2] at diagnosis. This is 1%
lower compared to the same period last year.



3.  Sexual intercourse remains the main mode of HIV
transmission, accounting for 91% of the 102 cases. Heterosexual
transmission accounted for 39% of cases while 52% of the cases occurred
in men who have sex with men, including men who engage in bisexual
sexual activities (3%).



4.  55% of the newly reported cases were detected by HIV
tests performed during the course of medical care[3] and were typically
at a late stage of HIV infection. Another 17% were detected during
routine programmatic HIV screening[4]  while 15% were detected through
self-initiated HIV screening. The rest were detected through other forms
of screening. A higher proportion of men who have sex with men (23%) had
their HIV infection detected via self-initiated HIV screening compared
to heterosexuals (8%).



5.  Annex A provides detailed data for cases reported from
1985 to June 2022. Information on newly reported HIV cases is regularly
updated on the MOH website.



PUBLIC ADVISORY



6.  The most effective way to prevent HIV infection is to
remain faithful to one’s spouse/ partner and to avoid casual sex, or sex
with sex workers. Persons engaging in high-risk sexual behaviour, such
as having multiple sexual partners or engaging in casual or commercial
sex, are strongly advised to use condoms to reduce their risk of HIV
infection and other sexually transmitted infections. Condoms should be
used consistently and correctly during every sexual encounter. In
addition, the use of preventive measures like HIV pre-exposure
prophylaxis are highly effective when used as part of a comprehensive
HIV prevention strategy.



7.  Going for HIV testing is the only way to know one’s HIV
status.  Everyone should know their HIV status and get tested at least
once. MOH and the Health Promotion Board (HPB) urge at-risk individuals
to go for regular HIV testing every three to six months[5]. Regular HIV
testing and early diagnosis allow persons living with HIV to be treated
early and achieve better treatment outcomes. A person living with HIV
can protect their sexual partner from infection, if they are on regular
treatment and have an undetectable viral load. With early and effective
treatment, persons living with HIV can continue to lead lives no
different from others.



8.  HPB has been working with partner organisations to
conduct programmes and campaigns to encourage at-risk individuals to
take proactive measures, such as going for early and regular HIV
testing. More information about HIV and AIDS as well as where to undergo
anonymous HIV testing can be found on go.gov.sg/preventhiv.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

HEALTH PROMOTION BOARD

1 DECEMBER 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Singapore citizens and permanent residents.

[2] CD4+ cell count of less than 200 per mm3 or AIDS-defining
opportunistic infections or both.

[3] Includes cases that presented with HIV-specific symptoms and cases
with non-HIV related medical conditions.

[4] Includes screening programmes for individuals with sexually
transmitted infections, hospital inpatients and those identified through
contact tracing.

5 HIV testing is available at polyclinics, private clinics and hospitals
and at ten anonymous HIV test sites located across Singapore, where
personal details are not required when signing up for a HIV test.


