Extension of Safe Management Measures for In-person Visits to Hospitals
and Residential Care Homes



EXTENSION OF SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR IN-PERSON VISITS TO HOSPITALS AND RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES


Published Date: 02 Aug 2022

The Ministry of Health (MOH) will extend the safe management measures
for visitors at all hospital wards¹ and residential care homes (‘Homes’)
for another four weeks until 31 August 2022 (inclusive).

2.  While the daily number of local COVID-19 cases has fallen
gradually over the past week, our hospitals continue to face a high
volume of both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. Homes have had to
manage an increased number of COVID-positive residents on-site. As such,
the adjusted visitor safe management measures which have been in place
since 7 July 2022 will remain in effect until 31 August 2022.

IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOSPITALS

3.  All patients will be allowed two pre-designated visitors
for the duration of their admission, and only one visitor may be allowed
at the bedside at any one time. Critically ill patients will be allowed
up to five pre-designated visitors, and two visitors may be allowed at
the bedside at any one point in time.

4.  The visit duration will be limited to 30 minutes. In
exceptional situations, such as for critically ill patients, paediatric
patients, birthing or post-partum mothers, and for patients requiring
additional care support², visitors may be allowed to stay beyond 30
minutes on a case-by-case basis at the hospitals’ discretion.

5.  Visitors are reminded not to eat or drink in the hospital
wards, or use the toilets designated for patients in the wards. They
should also avoid sitting on patients’ beds.

IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOMES

6.   All residents will be allowed up to four pre-designated
visitors, and only one visitor may visit at any one time with the visit
duration limited to 30 minutes. Visitors should continue to schedule the
visits with the Home ahead of time. Visitors should strictly adhere to
prevailing safe management measures within the Homes. This includes
remaining within the designated visitor areas, outside of the wards.

7.  We also seek the understanding of visitors that visits
may have to be suspended if a Home is managing active COVID-19 cases.
Next-of-kin of residents may approach the Home for further details.

8.  All visitors to hospitals and Homes are to ensure that
they are well and are strongly encouraged to test themselves with an
antigen rapid test (ART) on the day of the visit to their loved ones.
They must don face masks with good filtration capability at all times.
These include surgical masks and reusable masks that are made of two
layers of fabric. Hospitals and Homes have the discretion to impose
stricter visitor limits or testing requirements for visitors of
vulnerable or unvaccinated patients.

9.  MOH will review and calibrate these measures regularly in
line with the evolving situation. We seek the understanding and
cooperation of patients, residents, their family members and loved ones
as we work to reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission in our healthcare
institutions.

[1] Including public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals.

[2] Patients who require additional care support, such as patients who
have mental incapacities, or family members who are undergoing caregiver
training to better care for their loved ones after hospital discharge.
