Regional Health Cooperation Reaffirmed At 15th Asean Health Ministers
Meeting and Related Meetings



REGIONAL HEALTH COOPERATION REAFFIRMED AT 15TH ASEAN HEALTH MINISTERS MEETING AND RELATED MEETINGS


Published Date: 15 May 2022

               The ASEAN Health Ministers and senior officials
reaffirmed the importance of regional health cooperation at the 15th
ASEAN Health Ministers Meeting and Related Meetings held in Bali,
Indonesia from 14 to 15 May 2022.



2.  ASEAN member states shared updates and exchanged views on
strengthening health systems resilience in ASEAN and enhancing our
collective preparedness and response to pandemics. The meeting also
welcomed the operationalisation of the ASEAN Centre for Public Health
Emergencies and Emerging Diseases (ACPHEED), which will enhance ASEAN’s
capacity in prevention, detection and response to public health
emergencies.



3.  With ASEAN recovering from the pandemic and re-opening
our borders to the world, it is important to establish seamless travel
across the region, such as the use of digital technology to mutually
recognise vaccination certificates across countries. The ASEAN Health
Ministers and senior officials agreed to work towards an ASEAN Universal
Verification Mechanism to facilitate smooth international travel, while
protecting the data privacy and security of each ASEAN member state.



4.  At the meetings, Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye Kung
highlighted that ASEAN member states have managed to weather the
COVID-19 pandemic because of their close cooperation. However, countries
must remain vigilant and guard against complacency as lives return to
normal across the region. In the coming few months, ASEAN member states
are likely to see new waves as societal immunity wanes, or a new variant
that drives re-infections.



5.  To prepare for the new waves and a potential new virus,
in his intervention delivered at the 15th ASEAN Health Ministers
Meeting, Minister Ong highlighted three main areas of focus:



a)  Testing and surveillance: The establishment of ACPHEED forms the
nucleus of a regular monitoring and good surveillance capabilities and
response system in the ASEAN region.  This will provide early warning of
new COVID-19 variants of concern (VOC) and other emerging infectious
diseases.



b)  Availability of vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics: We must
continue our current efforts to vaccinate and boost our populations as
immunity will wane over time and current vaccines will be less effective
against the next VOC. Internally, ASEAN can collaborate better to ensure
that vaccine supplies are available for those who need them, such as
doing more to facilitate vaccine donations and swaps among countries.



c)  Ensuring resilience of travel lanes and supply chains: As
societies in ASEAN and our partner countries achieve stronger society
resilience to COVID-19 virus, we should strive to ensure that even if
new infection waves arrive, supply chains are not disrupted and
immigration borders remain open. In this regard, the ASEAN mutual
recognition system for vaccine certificates will be a critical tool.
From there we can forge similar systems with other regions, such as the
US, China, India and the EU.



6.  During the trip, Minister Ong also held bilateral
meetings with H.E. Budi G. Sadikin, Minister of Health, Republic of
Indonesia and Chair of the 15th ASEAN Health Ministers Meeting; H.E.
Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Public
Health, Thailand; and H.E. Dato Seri Setia Dr Haji Mohammad Isham bin
Haji Jaafar, Minister of Health, Brunei Darussalam. The parties shared
their experience in handling the COVID-19 pandemic and discussed future
collaborations towards strengthening health systems for public health
emergencies.



7.  Singapore looks forward to continuing to work closely
with ASEAN member states and dialogue partners to enhance regional
public health preparedness and response, and strengthen health
cooperation.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

15 MAY 2022
