Conclusion of Investigation Into Nuh’s Management of Pregnant Patient



CONCLUSION OF INVESTIGATION INTO NUH’S MANAGEMENT OF PREGNANT PATIENT


Published Date: 27 Apr 2022

The Ministry of Health (MOH) has completed its review of the National
University Hospital’s (NUH) investigation into the case involving a
pregnant patient alleged to have been left unattended for two hours at
its Emergency Department (ED). MOH is satisfied that NUH has identified
the gaps in processes and communication that had contributed to the
incident and implemented the recommended corrective actions. MOH has
also shared the findings and lessons learnt with all public hospitals.
2. Following the incident on 15 March 2022, NUH conducted a thorough
investigation of the incident, which included reviewing video footage
and interviewing all staff involved. The investigation was carried out
by a team of NUH senior doctors and nurses from the Emergency
Department, Obstetrics & Gynaecology (O&G) Department, and the Clinical
Governance-Medical Affairs team.
3. While NUH’s overall assessment is that the processes and
communications did not contribute to the miscarriage, there were gaps
that needed to be improved. Specifically, NUH had instituted a rapid
access protocol for pregnant patients with signs of labour, after triage
at the ED, to be transferred directly to the Delivery Suite to be
assessed by the O&G doctor, rather than being seen by the ED doctor
first before deciding for transfer. However, in this case, due to the
unusually high numbers of patients at the ED that night, and the
Delivery Suite being full, the process of immediate transfer to the
Delivery Suite had broken down, resulting in the patient not being seen
in a timely manner.
4. Learning from this incident, and to address the identified gaps, NUH
has implemented the following measures to strengthen care in the
following areas and to prevent similar incidents from happening again:
a) Patients who are pending transfer to the Delivery Suite will be
triaged by the ED nurse and reviewed by the ED Doctor who will
communicate with the O&G Doctor as clinically indicated;
b) Based on clinical assessment, if indicated, pregnant patients may be
evaluated using ultrasound at the ED;
c) A standardised obstetric assessment score will be used in the ED to
triage pregnant patients; and
d) Following review by the O&G doctor, foetal heart monitoring will be
done at the ED while waiting for a bed in the Delivery Suite.
5. MOH has reviewed the investigation report submitted by NUH, and is
satisfied with NUH’s findings, and the corrective actions are also
appropriate to address the gaps identified.
6. MOH notes that NUH has held several meetings with the patient and her
husband to provide clarification on the facts of the incident. The
couple has since accepted NUH’s clarifications and acknowledged that the
miscarriage may not have occurred at the hospital. NUH has also assured
them that the hospital is improving its processes to prevent future
occurrence of similar incidents.
7. MOH has shared NUH’s investigation findings with the senior
management of all public hospitals. In addition, MOH has also reinforced
to the public hospitals the clinical standards for the management of
obstetric emergencies.
