Implementation of Vaccinated Travel Framework



IMPLEMENTATION OF VACCINATED TRAVEL FRAMEWORK


Published Date: 31 Mar 2022

       We had earlier announced that Singapore will be launching the
Vaccinated Travel Framework from 31 MARCH 2022, 2359 HOURS where all
fully vaccinated travellers can enter Singapore under the Framework.



Eligibility under Vaccinated Travel Framework



2.     The following groups will be eligible under the Vaccinated Travel
Framework:



a) Travellers aged 12 years and below (regardless of vaccination
status);



b) Travellers who have received the full regimen of World Health
Organization Emergency Use Listing (WHO EUL) vaccines at least 14 days
before arrival in Singapore and have met the minimum dose interval
period. This is because the WHO EUL vaccination guidelines are the most
widely accepted definition for full vaccination around the world, and it
is appropriate for Singapore’s entry requirements to align to this
definition. It will facilitate Singaporeans travelling in and out of
Singapore and foreigners visiting Singapore.



3.     The above travellers are subject to a pre-departure test within
two days before departure for Singapore if arriving via air or sea
channels.  They are not subject to on-arrival tests or Stay-Home Notice.



4.     Amongst these travellers, those who were not vaccinated in
Singapore and do not have their records reflected in Singapore’s
National Immunisation Registry (NIR), their vaccination status in their
TraceTogether app will be reflected as fully vaccinated for 30 days, for
purposes of entering premises subject to Vaccination-Differentiated Safe
Management Measures (VDS)¹. If their stay in Singapore exceeds 30 days,
they will need to have their vaccination records ingested into the NIR
and may be required to receive additional doses to continue to meet
Singapore’s requirements for vaccination. Details on Singapore’s
vaccination requirements can be found on https://go.gov.sg/vdsmminfo.



5.     For clarity, the rules described in Paragraph 4 do not apply to
travellers aged 12 years and below, as all children aged 12 years and
below are allowed to enter settings where VDS is implemented regardless
of their vaccination status.



Vaccinations and Boosters for Travellers



6.     Currently, short-term travellers are not eligible to receive
doses under Singapore’s National Vaccination Programme.  From mid-April,
we will enable such travellers to pay to receive COVID-19 vaccinations
and boosters.



7.     We will provide more details at a later date, including on
pricing and the list of participating healthcare providers.



8.     We encourage all eligible travellers who have not received their
booster dose to do so when made available to them, for better protection
against COVID-19.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

31 MARCH 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Travellers entering under Vaccinated Travel Lane arrangements were
previously granted 180 days temporary vaccinated status on the
TraceTogether app. From 31 March 2022, 2359 hours, this will be
standardised at 30 days for all fully vaccinated travellers.

