Private Ambulance Operators to Be Licensed Under Healthcare Services Act



PRIVATE AMBULANCE OPERATORS TO BE LICENSED UNDER HEALTHCARE SERVICES ACT


Published Date: 03 Jan 2022

To ensure the safety and welfare of patients seeking ambulance services,
private ambulances services will be regulated as either Emergency
Ambulance Service (EAS) or Medical Transport Service (MTS) and licensed
under the Healthcare Services Act (HCSA) from 3 January 2022.
2. Licensed EAS and MTS providers must ensure that they establish a
proper clinical and quality assurance governance framework. This would
include proper oversight by a designated Clinical Governance Officer,
provision of service crew members with the right training, skillset and
competencies as well as ensuring that vehicles are equipped with
necessary medication, consumables and equipment, which are in working
order and not expired.
3. Private ambulance operators must ensure that all conveyance services
are provided in accordance with the requirements for EAS and MTS and
general obligations under the HCSA. They will be held liable should they
be found to have breached any of the regulations. MOH will also conduct
random audits and compliance checks on all providers to ensure that the
requirements continue to be met.
4. Members of the public should only engage licensed EAS and MTS
providers for conveyance services, depending on the level of services
they require. For example, those patients seeking emergency medical care
should call a licensed EAS provider. Members of the public can find a
list of licensed EAS or MTS providers on HealthHub
(https://www.healthhub.sg/directory). Patients or caregivers utilising
the services should also be well informed of the charges for the
conveyance through either calling the EAS and MTS providers or checking
the published common charges at their respective websites and obtaining
proper financial counselling from the providers prior to consuming the
service.
5. From 3 January 2022, it will be an offence to provide private
emergency ambulance and medical transport services without a valid
licence under the HCSA. Any unlicensed providers may be prosecuted and
liable to a fine not exceeding $100,000 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 2 years or to both. Unlicensed private ambulance services
may be reported to https://www.moh.gov.sg/feedback.


