Employees and Students Do Not Require Recovery Memos to Return to Work
Or School



EMPLOYEES AND STUDENTS DO NOT REQUIRE RECOVERY MEMOS TO RETURN TO WORK OR SCHOOL


Published Date: 05 Feb 2022

1.     General Practitioner (GP) clinics have reported a surge in the
number of patients they see, with many with no or mild symptoms visting
clinics just to obtain a letter or memo certifying they have recovered
from COVID-19 infection, to support their return to work or to school.
These visits are not necessary, and risk compromising the standard of
care for other patients who genuinely require medical attention.

2.     Under today’s health protocols, persons who have tested positive
for COVID-19 infection with an Antigen Rapid Test (ART) are to
self-isolate at home for at least 72 hours, and if they are well, they
may exit isolation to resume normal activities once they test negative
on their self-administered ART. They do not need a letter or memo from
doctors to certify they have recovered from COVID-19 in order to return
to work or to school, including pre-school and Institutes of Higher
Learning (IHLs).

3.     Employers and employees are advised to familiarise themselves
with the COVID-19 health protocols. Employers should not ask for
recovery memos upon return. Employees who test positive for COVID-19
(either through self-test or at a GP clinic) should immediately inform
their employers and not return to the workplace, in order to prevent the
virus from spreading. Those who are well should be allowed to work from
home if they are able to do so. If they are unable to work from home,
their employers should treat the period of absence as paid sick leave
without requiring a medical certificate (MC) from the employees.

4.     For employees who are on Protocol 2, they may self-administer ART
after at least 72 hours of isolation. If they are feeling well and test
negative, employers should allow them to return to the workplace without
requiring any further recovery memo or medical assessment from a doctor.
Sharing of the self-test ART results or on-site ART administration can
serve as alternatives.

5.     Similarly, students and staff who contracted COVID-19, or are
issued with a Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or Health Risk Warning (HRW) will
not have to obtain a recovery memo from their doctors, before returning
to school. This applies to students and staff in preschools, Early
Intervention centres, the Ministry of Education’s (MOE) kindergartens,
primary and secondary schools, Special Education (SPED) schools, junior
colleges (JCs)/Millennia Institute (MI), as well as IHLs.

6.     To ensure a safer learning environment for everyone, it is
important that we all exercise personal responsibility to monitor our
own health and the health of our children and family members closely. A
student can return to school once he or she feels well, and test
negative for COVID-19 after at least 72 hours of self-isolation.

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

MINISTRY OF MANPOWER

EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

5 FEBRUARY 2022
