Appointment of Interim Ceo for Health Promotion Board



APPOINTMENT OF INTERIM CEO FOR HEALTH PROMOTION BOARD


Published Date: 17 Mar 2022

     Mr Zee Yoong Kang, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Health
Promotion Board (HPB) will be stepping down on 1 April 2022 after
completing three terms as CEO, the last day of which is 31 March 2022.
The HPB board is currently finalising the appointment of his successor,
and this will be announced in due course. In the meantime, Mr Koh Peng
Keng, who is currently the Chief Operating Officer (COO) of HPB, will be
appointed as Interim CEO until the new CEO comes onboard.



2.   During his nine years as CEO of HPB, Mr Zee has accomplished
several breakthroughs across the promotional, regulatory and technology
domains for HPB. Under his leadership, HPB increased the share of
Healthier Choice Symbol products among packaged foods purchased by
consumers. The uptake of HPB’s Screen for Life programme for disease
prevention and follow-up rate increased significantly over the years.
During his tenure, HPB also forged numerous partnerships with agencies
in both the public and private sectors, which have contributed to the
increase in the overall physical activity level for Singaporeans.

3.   Mr Zee also drove and advocated the use of technology and new
capabilities to further HPB’s work. An example is the National Steps
Challenge™, which is into its sixth season. Across the past five
seasons, since 2015, the Challenge has attracted over 1.7 million
participants, encouraging Singaporeans to walk more and keep active.  In
the fight against COVID-19, Mr Zee led HPB to help build and scale up
national testing operations to support Singapore’s testing strategy.



4.   As COO, Mr Koh plays a key role in driving the integration and
end-to-end planning and execution of HPB’s health promotion and disease
prevention programmes. He was also the Group Director of the Testing
Operations Task Group in HPB prior to his appointment as COO, where he
led the national swab and testing operations for COVID-19. Mr Koh joined
the Civil Service in 1985 and held various key positions in the
Singapore Armed Forces and Ministries such as the Ministry of Community
Development, Youth and Sports, Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth
and Ministry of Health.



5.   Mr Philip Lee, Chairman of HPB said, “Yoong Kang has been a focal
point in promoting health initiatives in Singapore.  He steered HPB in
the use of technologies, data analytics as well as behavioural insights
in designing programmes for government healthcare initiatives such as,
the National Steps ChallengeTM programme, Live Healthy SG initiative and
LumiHealth mobile application.  He also led HPB in driving initiatives
for mental well-being campaigns like ‘Hi #JustCheckingIn’ and ‘It’s OKAY
to Reach Out’  to normalise talking about mental health issues and to
equip Singaporeans with the skills needed to support their families and
friends. His dedication and leadership will be missed. We wish him all
the best in his new role.
6.   The Ministry of Health and HPB wish to express their deep
appreciation to Mr Zee Yoong Kang for his contributions.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
HEALTH PROMOTION BOARD
17 MARCH 2022


