Resuming Our Transition to Resilience



RESUMING OUR TRANSITION TO RESILIENCE


Published Date: 11 Mar 2022

        On 16 February 2022, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF)
announced the streamlining of Safe Management Measures (SMMs) to five
core parameters (SMM 1 – 5).  SMM 1 – 5 is not an easing of measures,
but a streamlining of the many rules that have accumulated over two
years, which made the rules difficult to understand, remember and
follow. However, in view of the surge in daily cases and the heavy
workload in the healthcare sector, the MTF had nevertheless deferred the
effective date of SMM 1 – 5.
2.      Since then, daily local case numbers have begun to fall
gradually over the past week. Workload for our hospitals, primary care
and COVID-19 treatment facilities remains high but is stabilising. The
Ministry of Health (MOH) will continue to take active measures to
support our hospitals. These include enhancing healthcare manpower,
including with the help of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF);
transferring as many patients as possible to care facilities outside of
public hospitals, and encouraging the public to refrain from visiting
hospital emergency departments if they are infected and experiencing
symptoms which are not severe.
3.     In the meantime, we should proceed with the simplification and
streamlining of SMMs. This is to make things simpler to understand and
remember, so that everyone can better do their part. It also prepares us
for further easing of measures and the safe resumption of normal
activities, when conditions are right and the healthcare workload has
eased, which we expect in the coming weeks.
4.     We will also facilitate the safe resumption of travel by further
simplifying testing regimes for travellers on the Vaccinated Travel
Lane. Just as streamlining SMMs will pave the way for further
relaxations in time to come, this will pave the way for our subsequent
transition to a Vaccinated Travel concept where all vaccinated
travellers, especially residents who need to travel for work or studies,
can enjoy quarantine-free entry and re-entry into Singapore without the
need to apply for entry approval.
UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION
5.     Daily case numbers have fallen from the peak 7-day moving
average (7DMA) of 18,280 cases to a 7DMA of 16,392 in the past week. The
number of cases hospitalised has also begun to fall from the peak of
1,726 to 1,450. The incidence of severe illness continues to be
significantly lower than during the Delta wave. In the past 28 days,
0.04% and 0.2% of local cases required ICU care or oxygen
supplementation respectively.
6.     Our healthcare workers continue to face a heavy workload. Hence,
we urge everyone to continue exercising personal responsibility. If you
test positive for COVID-19, self-isolate in line with MOH’s health
protocols 1 and 2. Do not go to work or engage in social activities
until you have fulfilled the conditions to exit self-isolation, that is
with a negative Antigen Rapid Test (ART) after at least 72 hours from
first testing positive for COVID-19.
PROCEEDING WITH STREAMLINING OF SMMS
7.     As the situation stabilises, we will now proceed with the
planned streamlining of our COVID-19 SMM rules, which was earlier
announced on 16 February 2022. The simplification exercise is not an
easing of rules, but will better enable everyone to do their part as we
transition to a COVID-19 resilient nation and resume more social and
economic activities safely.
8.     From 15 MARCH 2022, we will streamline the SMMs based on the SMM
1 – 5 framework:

a.    Group sizes;
b.    Mask-wearing;
c.     Workplace requirements;
d.    Safe distancing; and
e.    Capacity limits.

9.     The streamlined SMMs are described below and summarised in Annex
A.
Group Sizes
10.          Group size directly affects the number of close contacts in
society, and is likely to be the key factor in driving infections.
Hence, the permissible group size for social gatherings remains at 5
persons.
11.          The maximum number of unique visitors per household will be
adjusted from 5 persons per day, to 5 persons at any one time. This can
be perceived as an easing of measures, as many infections do take place
at home. However, households typically do not receive multiple sets of
visitors outside of festive periods, and those who want to meet multiple
groups of friends have been doing so outside of their homes. We urge
everyone to continue to exercise restraint in meeting multiple groups of
friends, be it outside or at home, and especially if you live with
vulnerable persons.
Mask-Wearing
12.      Mask-wearing will continue to be required as a default, as this
continues to confer significant protection against infection.
Workplace Requirements
13.     We will maintain the current posture of allowing up to 50% of
employees who can work from home to return to the office to limit social
interactions. However, as part of the streamlining of rules, we will
align the rules for social gatherings for workplaces and other social
settings, so long as general group size and masking rules are adhered
to. As economic activities pick up, we will also remove the specific
restriction on cross-deployment of employees across workplaces, although
employers may continue to do so for business continuity reasons.
Safe Distancing
14.     Safe distancing will continue to be required for all mask-off
settings, and encouraged but not required for mask-on settings. This is
in recognition that masking remains the key means of protection against
infection. Where safe distancing is required, the distance will be
streamlined to a single safe distance of 1 metre for all settings.
However, we still need to guard against gatherings of big crowds, even
if they have their masks on. Hence, we will impose capacity limits, as
described below.
Capacity Limits
15.     Event sizes will be set based on the capacity of the venue. We
will lift specific event size limits for events such as religious
services, business events, media conferences, funerary memorial events,
solemnisations, wedding receptions, and mask-on classes¹.  Zoning
requirements will also be removed, as the main protection is through
masks and vaccination.
16.     However, for large events and settings of more than 1,000 pax,
which pose greater infection risks, we will impose a capacity limit of
50%, as a precaution. These will include attractions, cruises, MICE and
large work-related events, as well as large performing arts venues and
sports stadiums. For other settings such as shopping malls and large
standalone stores, the current density limit of 10sqm/pax roughly
translates to 50% capacity. This means that:

a.    For smaller settings/events with ≤1,000 pax, they can proceed
without being subject to any capacity limit.
b.    For larger settings/events with >1,000 pax and that are mask-on²,
they will be subject to a capacity limit of 50%.  For mask-off events,
individuals will be required to comply with the 1 metre safe distancing
requirement and prevailing group size.

See Annex B for the list of settings/events covered.
Adjustments to Vaccination-Differentiated SMMs (VDS)
17.          From 15 March 2022, unvaccinated children aged 12 years and
below (i.e. born in 2010 or later) need not be from the same household
to be included within a group entering premises or participating in
activities with VDS.
Resuming Sports
18.          There has not been clear evidence suggesting that transient
contact while playing sports leads to infections.  Conversely, two years
of SMMs have taken its toll on the physical, emotional and mental
well-being of our people, especially the young.
19.          From 15 MARCH 2022, we will allow team sports for up to 30
fully vaccinated persons (including players, coaches, umpires, etc.) to
proceed as earlier planned, at selected supervised/operated sports
facilities (i.e. ActiveSG/PA facilities and SportSG-approved private
facilities). The Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth (MCCY) will
progressively expand the number of venues in the coming weeks. The
resumption of sports is part of our continuing effort to allow selected
normal activities, especially those with intrinsic health benefits, to
resume as the pandemic situation stabilises and improves.
20.          The prevailing community SMMs will apply before and after
the sport activity, and during rest breaks. No additional testing
requirement will be imposed as long as all participants are fully
vaccinated, but participants are strongly encouraged to self-test before
arriving for the sports activity, and to stay home if they test positive
or develop symptoms. Participants will be required to complete a health
declaration form prior to the sports activity.
21.          For all these revisions on community SMMs listed above, the
relevant agencies will provide more details on the resultant
requirements specific to their sectors.
ALIGNING SMMS IN MIGRANT WORKER DORMITORIES AND RECREATION CENTRES WITH
SMMS IN THE COMMUNITY
22.          From 15 March 2022, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will
also streamline the SMMs for migrant workers (MWs) living in dormitories
to align with the latest SMMs for the community. Usage of sports
facilities, group sizes and events in dormitories and Recreation Centres
will be aligned with that of the community. For example, MWs will be
able to resume all sports activities involving up to 30 fully vaccinated
persons at supervised sports facilities within dormitories and
Recreation Centres.
Expansion of Community Visits Programme for MWs residing in dormitories
23.          The number of COVID-19 cases within dormitories has stayed
very low over the past few weeks. Vaccination coverage and booster
take-up amongst MWs have been very strong. The MW population has
therefore become very resilient to COVID-19 infections.
24.          Hence, there are good reasons to take a significant step to
allow more of our vaccinated MWs to visit the community safely, and to
safeguard their well-being. From 15 March 2022, up to 15,000 vaccinated
MWs will be allowed to visit the community on weekdays, and up to 30,000
on weekends and public holidays, for up to 8 hours per visit. This is an
increase from the current quotas of 3,000 on weekdays, and 6,000 for
weekends and public holidays.
25.          To manage crowding at popular locations, MWs will continue
to apply to visit their selected locations in the community. MOM will
monitor the application numbers and continue to conduct regular checks
at potential congregation hotspots.
UPCOMING EXPANSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR BOOSTER DOSE
26.          As announced previously, from 14 March 2022, persons aged
12 – 17 years who have completed their primary vaccination series and
are eligible for booster vaccination will be considered as fully
vaccinated for only 270 days after the last dose in their primary
vaccination series, and will require a booster dose to maintain their
vaccinated status thereafter. We strongly encourage all who are eligible
to receive booster doses to take them as soon as possible. This will
help to keep you and your loved ones safe.
UPDATES TO BORDER MEASURES
27.          We had earlier simplified our country/region classification
and border measures on 22 February 2022 to pave the way for more
Vaccinated Travel. Over the past weeks, imported infection numbers have
stayed very low – around 1% of total daily infections – because many
countries have already passed the peak of their Omicron infection waves.
28.          Given the above, we will now further rationalise our travel
protocols by switching to an unsupervised self-swab Antigen Rapid Test
(ART) within 24 hours of entry for General Category (Vaccinated Travel
Lane (VTL)) and Category I travellers entering Singapore from 14 MARCH
2022, 2359 HOURS. This will replace the previous requirement for a
supervised self-swab ART. Travellers are required to report their
unsupervised self-swab ART test result via sync.gov.sg³ before
proceeding with their activities in Singapore. Border measures for
travellers arriving from 14 MARCH 2022, 2359H can be found at Annex C.
29.          The latest border requirements can be found on the
SafeTravel website. Travellers are strongly advised to visit the website
to check the latest border measures for the associated country or region
before entering Singapore, and be prepared to adhere to the prevailing
border measures upon entry into Singapore.
30.          These are important steps to take to prepare ourselves for
a new Vaccinated Travel concept in the coming weeks, where fully
vaccinated travellers generally need not apply for approval to enter
Singapore, and will undergo simplified test requirements.
TRANSITION TO RESILIENCE
31.          The situation has stabilised with the concerted efforts and
sacrifices of our healthcare workers and everyone’s cooperation in
adhering to SMMs. However, this does not mean that we can lower our
guard. We must continue to exercise personal responsibility in adhering
to SMMs and following the appropriate health protocols should we test
positive for COVID-19, including by resting at home or visiting your
primary care physicians if you need any medical attention. We should
also refrain from going to the Emergency Departments unless there are
any medical emergencies, so as to ensure that we preserve the hospital
resources for those require acute care. Not doing so could erode our
hard-earned gains. We will continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation
and ease measures to allow more activities to resume. Step by step, we
will transition to resilience and emerge stronger from this crisis.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
11 MARCH 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] These refer to events held outside the home. For home
solemnisations, there can be up to 10 attendees or 5 non-resident
visitors (whichever is higher).  For home funerals, the current
arrangement of up to 30 attendees remains. Refer to the relevant
sectoral advisories for more details.
[2] For example, for a 1,200 pax event, the event would need to be held
at a venue which accommodates 2,400 pax, or the event size would have to
be capped at 1,000 pax. Events where 1m safe distancing and group size
limits apply will not be subject to the 50% capacity limit, as the SMMs
already ensure spreading out of attendees.
[3] Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass Holders
(LTPHs) with Singpass accounts should log into Sync using Singpass to
submit their results. LTPHs and Short-Term Visitors (STVs) without
Singpass accounts should log into Sync using their passport number, date
of birth and nationality.

