Extension of Safe Management Measures for In-person Visits to Hospitals
and Residential Care Homes



EXTENSION OF SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR IN-PERSON VISITS TO HOSPITALS AND RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES


Published Date: 09 Nov 2022

The Ministry of Health (MOH) will extend the current visitor safe
management measures at all hospital¹ wards and residential care homes
(‘Homes’) until 23 November 2022 (inclusive). This is to relieve
pressure on our hospitals and Homes, and to protect vulnerable patients
and residents.
2. While the daily number of local COVID-19 cases has fallen over the
past weeks, our hospitals continue to be under stress with a significant
number of COVID-19 patients still warded in hospitals. Homes are also
caring for an increased number of COVID-positive residents on-site
compared to the previous months. MOH had earlier announced the
tightening of safe management measures from 14 October to 10 November
2022.
IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOSPITALS
3. All patients will be allowed only two pre-designated visitors for the
duration of their admission, and only one visitor may be allowed at the
bedside at any one time. Critically ill patients will be allowed up to
five pre-designated patients, and two visitors may be allowed at the
bedside at any one point in time.
4. The visit duration will be limited to 30 minutes. In exceptional
situations, such as for critically ill patients, paediatric patients,
birthing or post-partum mothers, and for patients requiring additional
care support², visitors may be allowed to stay beyond 30 minutes on a
case-by-case basis at the hospitals’ discretion.
5. Visitors are reminded not to eat or drink in the hospital wards, or
use the toilets designated for patients in the wards. They should avoid
sitting on patients’ beds.
IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOMES
6. All residents will be allowed up to four pre-designated visitors, and
only one visitor may visit at any one time with the visit duration
limited to 30 minutes. Visitors should continue to schedule the visits
with the Home ahead of time. Visitors should strictly adhere to
prevailing safe management measures within the Homes. This includes
remaining within the designated visitor areas, outside of the wards.
7. We also seek the understanding of visitors that visits may have to be
suspended if a Home is managing active COVID-19 cases. Next-of-kin of
residents may approach the Home for further details.
8. Visitors to hospitals and Homes are to ensure that they are well and
are strongly encouraged to test themselves with an antigen rapid test
(ART) kit on the day of the visit to their loved ones. They must don
face masks with good filtration capability at all times. These include
surgical masks and reusable masks that are made of two layers of fabric.
Hospitals and Homes have the discretion to impose stricter visitor
limits or testing requirements for visitors of vulnerable or
unvaccinated patients and residents.
9. MOH will review and calibrate these measures regularly in line with
the evolving COVID-19 situation. We seek the understanding and
cooperation of patients, residents, and their family members and loved
ones.
[1] Including public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals
[2] Patients who require additional care support, such as patients who
have mental incapacities, or family members who are undergoing caregiver
training to better care for their loved ones after hospital discharge
