Implementation of Revised Subsidy Frameworks and Streamlining of
Household Means-test Process



IMPLEMENTATION OF REVISED SUBSIDY FRAMEWORKS AND STREAMLINING OF HOUSEHOLD MEANS-TEST PROCESS


Published Date: 30 Aug 2022

1.     From 1 September 2022 onwards, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will
implement in phases changes related to the subsidy frameworks across
healthcare settings, which had been announced in March 2021. To make
subsidy application more seamless, MOH will also progressively
streamline the household means-test process for determining eligible
subsidies across the various healthcare settings.

IMPLEMENTATION DATES OF REVISED SUBSIDY FRAMEWORKS

2.     In March 2021, MOH announced the revised means-tested subsidy
frameworks for the acute hospital (AH), community hospital (CH) and
specialist outpatient clinic (SOC) settings. These are significant
changes to our healthcare financing policies to provide more subsidies
to patients who need greater support, and encourage patients to access
care at the most appropriate healthcare setting. Please refer to Annex
for the revised subsidy frameworks in the various settings.

3.     The revised frameworks will be implemented in phases, namely: 1
September 2022 for drug subsidies through the Medication Assistance Fund
(MAF); 1 November 2022 for inpatient care and day surgery in acute
hospitals, and inpatient rehabilitation and sub-acute services in
community hospitals; and 1 January 2023 for outpatient care in the
specialist outpatient clinics.

4.     Our earlier announcement did not cover the following change to
drug subsidies under the Standard Drug List (SDL) in acute and community
hospitals. Instead of the current arrangement where drugs listed on the
SDL are subsidised at a standard rate of 50%, subsidies will be
means-tested by per capita household income (PCHI), and range from 50%
to 75%, with more subsidies for the lower-income group. These changes
will be effective from 1 November 2022 as well, together with other
subsidy changes in AH and CH settings.

STREAMLINING OF HOUSEHOLD MEANS TEST PROCESS

5.     To bring greater convenience to patients and healthcare
providers, MOH is progressively streamlining the household means-test
process, by using the PCHI data that is already computed for MediShield
Life premium subsidy administration. This will eliminate the need for
repeated subsidy application when care is sought at different settings.
Patients keen to have their means-test status reassessed may request for
more information through their public healthcare institution or
healthcare service provider.

6.     This streamlined household means-test process has been
implemented for long-term care services such as nursing homes since 1
June 2022, and will be implemented for drugs and services subsidies in
the acute AH, CH, SOC and polyclinic settings alongside the
aforementioned subsidy changes.

ENSURING HEALTHCARE REMAINS AFFORDABLE

7.     Overall, the financing and subsidy scheme changes will help
target and increase subsidies to those who need them most, while
managing healthcare cost growth sustainably. Patients who still face
affordability concerns at public healthcare institutions may approach
medical social workers for financial assistance. No one will be denied
appropriate healthcare due to an inability to pay.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

30 AUGUST 2022
