Honorary Citizen Award Conferred On Professor K Ranga Rama Krishnan and
Professor Duane J. Gubler



HONORARY CITIZEN AWARD CONFERRED ON PROFESSOR K RANGA RAMA KRISHNAN AND PROFESSOR DUANE J. GUBLER


Published Date: 09 Jun 2022

        Singapore has honoured Professor K Ranga Rama Krishnan, Chairman
of the National Medical Research Council (NMRC), and Professor Duane J.
Gubler, Emeritus Professor at Duke-NUS Medical School, with the Honorary
Citizen Award for their valuable contributions to Singapore. President
Halimah Yacob conferred the Award on Professor Krishnan and Professor
Gubler at a ceremony held at the Istana today.
2.     The Award is the highest form of recognition bestowed by the
Singapore Government for outstanding contributions by individuals to the
country’s growth and development. It is conferred on those who have made
a significant impact in the areas of business, science and technology,
information communications, education, health, arts and culture, sports,
tourism, community services or security. Please refer to Annex A for
more information on the Honorary Citizen Award, and Annex B for the
biographies of the awardees.
PROFESSOR K RANGA RAMA KRISHNAN
3.     Professor Ranga Krishnan is Chairman of the NMRC of the Ministry
of Health (MOH), and Chief Executive Officer of the Rush University
System for Health in the United States of America.
4.     As the longest serving Chairman of the NMRC Board, Professor
Krishnan guided NMRC to formulate and implement strategies to promote
excellence in health and biomedical sciences, leading to impactful
outcomes for Singapore. In particular, he strengthened NMRC’s support of
translational research in key areas such as ageing and health services
research, and also helped develop innovation and commercialisation of
research. This included the setting up of the National Health Innovation
Centre Singapore in 2014, of which he was the founding Chairman.
5.     As Dean of Duke-NUS from 2008 to 2015, he was instrumental in
laying the foundations for the school and the broader SingHealth
Duke-NUS Academic Medical Centre. He also served as Member of the
SingHealth Board from 2013 to 2022, helping to steer the academic
medicine partnership between SingHealth and Duke-NUS to become a leader
in medical research and education in Singapore and beyond.
6.     Professor Krishnan was Chairman of the Singapore Clinical
Research Institute and Board Member of the Health Sciences Authority,
both of which benefitted greatly from his extensive experience and
expertise in clinical trials and regulatory science. His influence also
led to the establishment of the Centre of Regulatory Excellence at
Duke-NUS, which is the first dedicated centre in Asia targeted to the
needs of national health regulators and other stakeholders.
7.     Professor Krishnan also served on various national research
oversight committees, including the Human Health and Potential Executive
Committee and the A*STAR Biomedical Research Council. In these roles, he
provided guidance and critical insights towards the formulation of
national research and biomedical sciences strategies.
8.     Professor Krishnan said, “I am humbled and deeply grateful to
receive the Honorary Citizen Award and to join a very respected group of
recipients. Singapore gave me an unique, once in a lifetime opportunity
to be part of building a new medical school, and a truly outstanding
academic health system. I am thankful for that opportunity and for the
chance to participate in the transformation of Singapore’s health system
and biotech sector to be a true global leader. I would like to express
my gratitude to the many individuals, through these many years from
A*STAR, Duke-NUS, MOH, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Trade and
Industry, National Research Foundation, National University of
Singapore, and SingHealth, too many to enumerate, whose support and
friendship made it all possible.”
PROFESSOR DUANE J. GUBLER
9.     Professor Duane J. Gubler is an Emeritus Professor and Founding
Director of the Emerging Infectious Diseases (EID) Programme at Duke-NUS
Medical School. He is also the Chair of National Environment Agency
(NEA)’s Dengue Expert Advisory Panel, which guides NEA’s research team
in developing and piloting the novel _Wolbachia_ technology.
10.    Singapore’s partnership with Professor Gubler dates back to 1977,
when he attended a dengue meeting held here by the World Health
Organization. Since then, he has played a pivotal role in shaping
Singapore’s public health strategies, serving on numerous expert
advisory panels for MOH and NEA. He advocated fostering strong political
will to control infectious diseases, and proposed a government-community
partnership for dengue control, emphasising public education, removal of
stagnant water, and robust surveillance. His advice forms the foundation
of Singapore’s dengue control programme today. Beyond dengue, Professor
Gubler led the establishment of the EID programme at Duke-NUS and
institutionalised the lessons learned from Singapore’s experience with
SARS in 2003 and H1N1 influenza in 2009. Thanks to this effort,
Singapore’s COVID-19 response has been lauded by many around the world
for its high level of readiness and efficiency.
11.     Many young scientists in Singapore have also been inspired by
Professor Gubler and benefited from his guidance. At Duke-NUS, he was
selfless in sharing his wealth of knowledge in research, especially to
early career scientists, helping to shape and nurture the local research
landscape in the field of virology and medical entomology. Professor
Gubler’s deep and generously offered insights also strengthened the
scientific capabilities of NEA’s Environmental Health Institute during
its formative years. He continues to contribute to Singapore as the
Chair of NEA’s Dengue Expert Advisory Panel. The Panel has guided NEA’s
research team in developing and piloting the novel _Wolbachia_
technology, which has since successfully reduced dengue risk in the
study sites.
12.     Professor Gubler said, “Words cannot convey how humbled I am to
receive Honorary Citizenship from a great country like Singapore. I am
deeply greatly honoured to receive this award. My first visit to
Singapore was over 50 years ago, before shopping centres and high-rise
condos and hotels dotted the skyline. I have watched Singapore evolve
into a global public health and economic leader, becoming a model for
other countries to emulate. I am proud to have been a part of this
evolution, but any contribution I may have made must be attributed to
the many Singaporean colleagues and friends whom I have worked with over
the years. I humbly thank them for making this award possible and will
do my best to live up to the honour conferred on me today.”
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT AGENCY
9 JUNE 2022


