Update On the Hiv/aids Situation In Singapore 2021 (june 2022)



UPDATE ON THE HIV/AIDS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE 2021 (JUNE 2022)


Published Date: 01 Jul 2022

        There were 250 new cases of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
infections reported among Singapore residents¹ in 2021. This brings the
total number of HIV-infected Singapore residents to 9,129 as of end
2021, of whom 2,255 had passed away over the years. The annual number of
new HIV cases among Singapore residents had ranged from 400 to 500 from
2007 to 2017, had decreased to about 320 in 2018 and 2019, and had
further decreased to 261 in 2020.
2.     Of the 250 new cases in 2021, 95% were male and 68% were aged 20
to 49 years. About 62% had late-stage HIV infection² when they were
diagnosed.
3.     Sexual intercourse remains the main mode of HIV transmission. 95%
(237 out of 250) of the cases had acquired the infection through sexual
intercourse.  Heterosexual transmission accounted for 33% of cases,
while 62% of the cases occurred in men who have sex with men (MSM),
including bisexual transmission (3%).
4.     57% of the newly reported cases were detected during the course
of medical care³ and typically at a late stage of HIV infection. Another
18% were detected during routine programmatic HIV screening⁴ and 16%
were detected from self-initiated HIV screening. The rest were detected
through other forms of screening. Cases detected via self-initiated
screening tended to be at the early stage of infection. A higher
proportion of MSMs (23%) had their HIV infection detected via
self-initiated HIV screening compared to heterosexuals (6%). Please
refer to the Annex for detailed data for cases reported from 1985 to
2021.
PUBLIC ADVISORY
5.     The most effective way to prevent HIV infection is to remain
faithful to one’s spouse/ partner and to avoid casual sex, or sex with
sex workers. Persons engaging in high-risk sexual behaviour, such as
having multiple sexual partners or engaging in casual or commercial sex,
are strongly advised to use condoms to reduce their risk of HIV
infection and other sexually-transmitted infections. Condoms should be
used consistently and correctly during every sexual encounter. In
addition, the use of preventive measures like HIV pre-exposure
prophylaxis are highly effective when used as part of a comprehensive
HIV prevention strategy.
6.     The Ministry of Health and the Health Promotion Board (HPB) urge
individuals who engage in high-risk sexual behaviour to go for regular
HIV testing. Going for HIV testing is the only way to know one’s HIV
status. Regular testing and early diagnosis allow persons living with
HIV to be treated early and achieve better treatment outcomes. This also
provides an opportunity to protect their partners from infection as
persons living with HIV who are on treatment and have an undetectable
viral load have practically no risk of transmitting the virus to their
sexual partners. With early and effective treatment, people living with
HIV can lead lives no different from others.
7.     HIV testing is widely available at healthcare institutions,
including polyclinics, private clinics, hospitals, and at anonymous HIV
test sites where personal particulars are not required when undergoing a
HIV test.
8.     From 1 August 2022, the National HIV Programme, which is under
the National Centre for Infectious Diseases, will be introducing HIV
self-testing to complement the existing testing modalities, and
encourage self-testing for those who prefer this testing option. HIV
self-testing can be done in the privacy of one’s home and involves
self-collection of oral specimen using a swab. The results can be
obtained within 20 to 40 minutes. HIV self-testing kits will be
available at the Department of Sexually Transmitted Infections Control
(DSC) Clinic and Action for AIDS (AfA) Anonymous Test Site (ATS) at 31
Kelantan Lane, from 1 August 2022. The HIV self-test kit costs between
$20 and $32.
9.     The result of a single rapid diagnostic test such as the HIV
self-test is not sufficient to make a HIV-positive diagnosis. Therefore,
Individuals with a positive result from the self-testing kit should
receive further confirmatory testing from a healthcare provider and be
referred for treatment. If the test result is negative, it also does not
mean that the individual is not infected with HIV. As it can take up to
three months for antibodies to develop following HIV infection before
they can be detected by the self-test kits, a recent infection may not
be detected unless a second test is performed three months after the
first test. Those at higher risk of HIV infection should test more
frequently and see a health care provider to discuss options for
preventive measures and testing. More information about the HIV
self-testing can be found at www.ncid.sg/nhivp.
10.     More information about HIV and AIDS as well as where to undergo
anonymous HIV testing can be found on https://www.healthhub.sg.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
NATIONAL CENTRE FOR INFECTIOUS DISEASES
1 JULY 2022

¹ Singapore citizens and permanent residents
² CD4+ cell count of less than 200 per cu mm or AIDS-defining
opportunistic infections or both
³ Includes cases that presented with HIV-specific symptoms and cases
with non-HIV related medical conditions
⁴ Includes screening programmes for individuals with sexually
transmitted infections, hospital inpatients and those identified through
contact tracing

