Earlier Rollout of Bivalent Moderna/spikevax Vaccination



EARLIER ROLLOUT OF BIVALENT MODERNA/SPIKEVAX VACCINATION


Published Date: 11 Oct 2022

The Ministry of Health (MOH) will be bringing forward the administration
of the bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine from 17 October 2022, which was
previously announced, to 14 OCTOBER 2022.  This is because our operation
teams were able to complete their preparations earlier, and there are
benefits to administering early as infections are rising due to the XBB
Omicron subvariant.

2.  The bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine is based on the
same original vaccine, with the same dosage for boosting. Instead of
targeting only the original COVID-19 virus, the updated version also
targets the Omicron variant. It therefore will provide better protection
against newer COVID-19 variants. It is proven to be safe and effective.

3.  The approach and process of updating a vaccine with new
strains of a disease is an established practice. Influenza vaccines, for
example, can include as many as four strains of the influenza virus, and
may be updated twice a year.  As updated vaccines are the same vaccine
product which incorporate more recent strains of the virus, it is common
and standard practice to conduct modified studies and smaller scale and
more specific clinical trials, rather than re-run comprehensive clinical
trials, to establish their safety and efficacy. This is an approach
adopted and accepted by international bodies and regulators.

4.  Based on post market surveillance, to date, over 11
million updated bivalent mRNA vaccine doses have been administered in
the US without any safety concerns reported.

5.  Both modified and clinical studies have shown that the
bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine is safe and efficacious. A clinical
trial for the bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine in adults aged 18 years
and older compared 437 participants receiving the bivalent vaccine and
377 participants receiving the original vaccine for booster vaccination.
The clinical trial showed that:

a.  The bivalent vaccine provides better protection against newer
COVID-19 variants, especially the Omicron variant. It generated an
antibody response against the Omicron variant that was 75% greater than
the original booster.

b.  The side effects after vaccination were similar for both the
bivalent vaccine and the original vaccine, and there were no safety
issues observed.

6.  The Health Sciences Authority and the Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination have independently reviewed the data, and assessed
that the bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine has a similar safety profile
as the original Moderna/Spikevax vaccine. The vaccine is safe, and the
risk of serious adverse events from the vaccine is very rare.

7.  From 14 October 2022, persons who have yet to achieve
minimum protection, or those aged 50 years and above who have received
their last vaccine dose more than five months ago, may receive the
bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine. They can walk into any of the nine
Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres (JTVC) offering the
Moderna/Spikevax vaccines to receive their bivalent vaccine dose. These
are:

·  JTVC Ang Mo Kio

·  JTVC Bukit Merah

·  JTVC Commonwealth

·  JTVC Jurong East

·  JTVC Kaki Bukit

·  JTVC Pasir Ris

·  JTVC Sengkang

·  JTVC Woodlands

·  JTVC Yishun



Individuals may also refer to https://www.gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine to
locate the nearest JTVC and their operating hours.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

11 OCTOBER 2022
