Updated Measures for Monkeypox



UPDATED MEASURES FOR MONKEYPOX


Published Date: 01 Aug 2022

   With effect from 1 August 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will
transfer monkeypox cases assessed by the public hospitals to be
clinically stable to a dedicated Monkeypox Isolation Facility (MIF), and
adjust the quarantine period for close contacts to 14 days, followed by
seven days of monitoring for symptoms. These updated public health
measures are in line with the latest local and international data,
including that from the World Health Organization (WHO).
TRANSFER OF CONFIRMED CASES TO A MONKEYPOX ISOLATION FACILITY
2. Monkeypox is typically a mild and self-limiting illness where the
majority of patients recover within two to four weeks without requiring
hospitalisation. Those particularly vulnerable to complications are
young children, pregnant women and immunocompromised individuals.

3. Previously, all confirmed cases of monkeypox were isolated in
hospitals until they are non-infectious. On 29 July 2022, as part of a
pilot to transit monkeypox cases to recover in the community, eight
cases were conveyed from our public hospitals to the MIF. These cases
are all currently in stable condition with mild symptoms.
4. From 1 August 2022, all confirmed cases assessed by the public
hospitals to be clinically stable will be conveyed to the MIF with 24/7
telemedicine support. These cases will recover in the MIF until they are
deemed to be non-infectious and fit for discharge. Cases assessed by the
public hospitals to be at higher risk of complications will continue to
be managed in hospitals. This allows hospitals to preserve their
capacity for cases with more severe symptoms or complications.
ADJUSTMENT OF QUARANTINE REGIME FOR CLOSE CONTACTS
5. Given that transmission requires close physical or prolonged contact,
including face to face and skin to skin contact such as sexual contact,
the risk to the general public remains low. Evidence also points to a
mean incubation period of approximately eight to nine days with most
close contacts developing symptoms by Day 14 from their last exposure to
a confirmed case.
6. Previously, close contacts were quarantined for up to 21 days from
their last date of exposure to a confirmed case date. From 1 August
2022, persons under quarantine will be quarantined for 14 days followed
by seven days of monitoring for symptoms via regular phone calls. These
individuals will be able to complete their quarantine from home. Those
who are unable to complete their quarantine from home will be
transferred to a Government Quarantine Facility.
7. MOH will continue to monitor the monkeypox situation closely and
calibrate our preparedness and response measures as needed. Members of
the public are encouraged to exercise personal responsibility by
monitoring their personal health, maintaining good hygiene, and avoiding
high-risk sexual activity, such as having multiple sex partners or
casual sex, especially during travel. They should also avoid close
contact with individuals known or suspected to be ill with monkeypox
infection.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
1 AUGUST 2022


