Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Updates Recommendations for the
Pfizer-biontech/comirnaty Covid-19 Vaccine



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION UPDATES RECOMMENDATIONS FOR THE PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY COVID-19 VACCINE


Published Date: 06 Dec 2022

1.     The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) recommends:

a.  switching to the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19 vaccine
    for the primary vaccination series and for booster vaccination,
    instead of the monovalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19
    vaccine, for persons aged 12 years and above; and
b.  the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19 vaccine for children aged 6
    months to 4 years, which comprises 3 doses, may be used for primary
    vaccination series for children aged 6 months to 4 years.

BIVALENT PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY COVID-19 VACCINE FOR AGES 12 YEARS
AND ABOVE

2.     EC19V notes that HSA has authorised the bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty COVID-19 vaccine for use in persons aged 12
years and above under the Pandemic Special Access Route. This updated
vaccine targets the spike proteins from both the original and the
Omicron BA.4/5 variants of the virus.

3.     After studying the data, EC19V recommends a switch from the
monovalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine to the bivalent vaccine for
the primary vaccination series and for booster vaccination for persons
aged 12 years and above. In general, the updated bivalent vaccines are
preferred over the original monovalent COVID-19 vaccines. Either the
bivalent Moderna/Spikevax vaccine or the bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine can be chosen for the primary
vaccination series or for booster vaccination.

_
Vaccine Protection and Safety_

4.     Studies of the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine have
shown that it generates a stronger immune response against the Omicron
variant compared to the original monovalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
vaccine, while retaining the response against the original strain. A
high level of protection against severe disease across variants is
expected, and may also confer better protection against future variants
compared to the original vaccine. The assessment of the bivalent vaccine
targeting the Omicron BA.4/5 variant took into account the available
data on the original and adapted versions of the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine, including the bivalent vaccine that
target the closely related Omicron BA.1 subvariant. EC19V’s assessment
of the data is in agreement with that published by HSA on 25 October
2022.

5.     Safety data of the bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine was
consistent with that of the original monovalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine. Adverse events were mostly
mild-to-moderate and resolved within days.

_Recommend Use of the Updated Bivalent Vaccine for Primary Vaccination
Series and Booster Vaccination_

6.     Given similar safety profiles of the updated bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine and the enhanced protection against
COVID-19, as compared to the original monovalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine, EC19V recommends the use of the
bivalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine instead of the original
monovalent Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine for both the primary
vaccination series and for booster vaccination in ages 12 years and
above. The dosage of the updated vaccine is the same as the original
vaccine (30-micrograms).

7.     Persons aged 12 years and above who had completed their booster
vaccination with the original vaccine should be offered a booster dose
of a bivalent vaccine around 5 months after their last booster dose.

8.     Both the bivalent Moderna/Spikevax and bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccines enhance protection against Omicron
variants. There is currently no evidence that either vaccine is better
than the other in terms of protection against future variants. As such,
i) either can be chosen for booster vaccination, and ii) persons who
have already completed booster vaccinations with the bivalent
Moderna/Spikevax vaccine do not need to receive an additional bivalent
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine dose, or vice versa.

9.     EC19V urges all eligible persons to receive their recommended
vaccinations with the vaccines available when they are due, and not to
delay to wait for specific vaccines to become available. This is to
ensure that they continue to be sufficiently protected against COVID-19.
Bivalent vaccines are not available for children under 12 years at this
time, and these children should proceed with their primary vaccination
series and/or booster vaccination with the original monovalent COVID-19
vaccines for their age group, as soon as they are offered.

10.     EC19V will continue to monitor developments of updates to
COVID-19 vaccines and update the national recommendations accordingly,
to achieve safe and effective vaccine protection for our population.

PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY COVID-19 VACCINE FOR CHILDREN AGED 6 MONTHS TO
4 YEARS

11.     EC19V notes that the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) has
approved the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine for children aged 6
months to 4 years. After studying the data on its safety and efficacy,
the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination recommends that the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine may also be used for the primary
vaccination series for children aged 6 months to 4 years, as an
alternative to the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for this age group.

12.     The Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty primary vaccination series in this
age group (children aged 6 months to 4 years) consists of three doses of
3-micrograms, each given 8 weeks apart.

13.     The trial of the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine in children
aged 6 months to 4 years has shown that three doses generate antibody
levels comparable to that achieved in young adults vaccinated with two
doses of the adult dosage. This is expected to provide a high level of
protection against severe disease and reduce the risk of hospitalisation
from COVID-19.

14.     Vaccination for children aged 6 months to 4 years with the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine is safe, and side effects were
comparable or less common than that observed in older persons vaccinated
with the vaccine. The risks of pericarditis/myocarditis are also
expected to be very low in this age group.

15.     EC19V had previously recommended that children aged 6 months to
4 years be vaccinated with two doses of the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine for
their age group. With this latest recommendation, parents also have the
option of letting their children aged 6 months to 4 years receive the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine instead. Parents should note that this
option requires 3 doses taken over 16 weeks, compared to 2 doses taken
over 8 weeks for the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine, and therefore more
vaccination visits and a longer period to achieve optimal protection.

16.     While the risk of severe COVID-19 in young children is low,
severe disease can still occur and they have had a higher risk of
hospitalisation compared to older children who have been able to get
vaccinated. Hence, young children should be vaccinated as soon as they
can with the vaccines available currently in order to achieve timely
protection against COVID-19. Parents should not delay their young
children’s vaccination or wait for specific vaccines to become available
in the future.

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

6 DECEMBER 2022
