Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends A Second Booster
Dose for Ages 60 Years and Above, and One Booster Dose for Ages 5 to 11
Years



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS A SECOND BOOSTER DOSE FOR AGES 60 YEARS AND ABOVE, AND ONE BOOSTER DOSE FOR AGES 5 TO 11 YEARS


Published Date: 24 Aug 2022

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS A SECOND BOOSTER
DOSE FOR AGES 60 YEARS AND ABOVE, AND ONE BOOSTER DOSE FOR AGES 5 TO 11
YEARS

  The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) is
updating its recommendations to:

a.  Recommend a second booster dose in all persons aged 60 to 79
years. With this recommendation, all persons aged 60 years and above are
recommended to receive a second booster dose; and

b.  Recommend one booster dose in children aged 5 to 11 years. With
this recommendation, all persons aged 5 years and above are recommended
to receive the first booster dose.

The booster doses should be received around five months after the last
vaccine dose.

UPDATED SECOND BOOSTER RECOMMENDATION IN ADULTS AGED 60 TO 79 YEARS

2.  The EC19V recommends that all persons aged 60 years
and older who have completed their primary vaccination series and first
booster dose, should receive a second mRNA COVID-19 booster vaccine from
around five months after their first booster. This is in addition to the
following groups of persons who were previously recommended to do so.

a.  All persons aged 80 years and older;

b.  Medically vulnerable persons at higher risk of severe COVID-19;
and

c.  Persons living in aged care facilities.

3.  The latest local evidence has shown that compared to
persons who received two doses of mRNA vaccine, the first booster
reduced the risk of severe disease by 94% for those aged 70-79 years and
by 97% for those aged 60-69 years, while the second booster reduced it
further to 97% and 98% respectively. In other words, a second mRNA
booster could reduce the actual number of persons aged 60 years and
above who get severe disease by up to 50%. Many health conditions,
including diabetes or hypertension, which seem to contribute to the
severity of COVID-19, are also more common at around this age; the
second booster thus provides added protection against severe disease in
persons who have such medical conditions, especially since adverse
events associated with a second booster at these age groups have also
been mild. It is therefore recommended that all persons aged 60 and
above receive a second booster to lower their risk against severe
COVID-19.

4.  The second booster continues to be offered to those
aged 50-59 years who want to take it, under the National Vaccination
Programme (NVP).

5.  For all persons diagnosed with chronic medical
conditions that make them vulnerable to severe disease, the second
COVID-19 vaccine booster continues to be recommended¹.

BOOSTER VACCINATION IN CHILDREN AGED 5 YEARS TO 11 YEARS

6.  The EC19V also recommends that children aged 5-11
years, who completed their primary vaccination (consisting of two doses
of Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine), should receive one booster dose
of Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine, starting from five months after
the second dose.

7.  Children aged 5-11 years were recommended to receive
the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine for stronger protection against
hospitalisation and severe disease from COVID-19. There is now local and
international data indicating that antibody levels and vaccine
protection against COVID-19 hospitalisation decline with time in this
age group, just as it does with adolescents and adults.

8.  In this age group, the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
booster vaccine has been shown to increase antibody levels to more than
twice the levels achieved after two primary doses, which helps sustain
the level of protection against severe disease.

9.  Common side effects in children who received the
booster dose were generally mild, similar to those from the first two
doses. As of August 2022, more than 1,000,000 booster doses have been
safely administered to children aged 5-11 years in the United States of
America under the recommendation of the United States Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention.

10.  The EC19V has assessed that booster vaccination is
beneficial for protection against severe COVID-19 in children aged 5-11
years. While children of this age group are at low risk of severe
COVID-19 disease, some children have required hospitalisation, and
developed life-threatening disease requiring intensive care treatment or
severe complications such as MIS-C (Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in
Children). All children aged 5-11 years who have already had their
primary vaccination are therefore recommended to receive a booster dose
of the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine (10 micrograms) under the
National Vaccination Programme.

ENSURING CONTINUED VACCINATION PROTECTION AGAINST SEVERE DISEASE AND
HOSPITALIZATION

11.  The EC19V recommends that persons in all age groups who
are eligible for primary or booster COVID-19 vaccines, should receive
their vaccinations without delay, based on the recommended vaccination
intervals. The EC19V does not recommend waiting for newer or
variant-specific vaccines. This will ensure that they continue to be
protected against severe disease and hospitalisation.

12.  The EC19V continues to keep track of further
developments on COVID-19 vaccines, including those for children under 5
years of age, and will update its recommendations based on the latest
scientific, clinical, and public health evidence.

EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

24 AUGUST 2022

[1] For avoidance of doubt, the second COVID-19 vaccine booster
continues to be recommended to medically vulnerable persons, even to
those under the age of 60 years. This includes those who have been
diagnosed with chronic medical conditions that place them at higher risk
of severe COVID-19.
