Focusing Our Resources and Refining Our Healthcare Protocols to Deal
With the Omicron Wave



FOCUSING OUR RESOURCES AND REFINING OUR HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS TO DEAL WITH THE OMICRON WAVE


Published Date: 21 Jan 2022

        The number of confirmed Omicron cases has started to rise more
sharply over the past week. With our high vaccination rates, steady
uptake of booster doses, and Safe Management Measures (SMMs) including
Vaccination Differentiated SMMs, the number of severe cases remains low.
However, as Omicron is more transmissible than Delta, we should prepare
for further surges in infections in the weeks ahead.

2.     As seen in other countries, the high case numbers are likely to
disrupt manpower resourcing nationally and will exert significant
pressure on our healthcare system. Businesses should prepare their
business continuity plans, adhere strictly to SMMs and encourage workers
to test themselves regularly, so as to dampen transmission and minimise
operational disruptions.
3.     In the coming weeks, it is extremely important to protect our
healthcare capacity and vulnerable seniors, so as ride through the
Omicron wave. We will therefore temporarily suspend in-person visits to
hospital wards and residential care homes (‘Homes’) for the next 4
weeks.
4.     We have made plans to optimise our healthcare resources and
adjusted our protocols to better prepare for this upcoming wave. We had
earlier worked with primary care doctors to let low-risk individuals
with mild COVID-19 symptoms recover safely at home under Protocol 2,
while putting individuals needing more medical support under the Home
Recovery Programme. We are making preparations to further widen the
applications of Protocol 2 in the next couple of weeks, to progressively
include more patient groups and settings.
5.     Given a shorter infectious period for Omicron, we will also
reduce the duration of isolation under Protocol 1 from 10 days to 7 days
for fully vaccinated individuals.
6.     We will refine the testing regime for Vaccinated Travel Lane
(VTL) travellers. The current regime put in place in early December 2021
sought to delay the spread of Omicron while we understand the variant
better. This is now less relevant given our understanding of the variant
and the wider community transmission of Omicron.
7.     To maximise our protection against Omicron as we go about our
daily lives, we agreed with the recommendations of the Expert Committee
on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) to extend the booster programme to
individuals aged 12 to 17. We had earlier announced that from 14
FEBRUARY 2022, persons aged 18 years and above will be considered fully
vaccinated only for 270 days after the last dose of their primary series
of COVID-19 vaccines. Thereafter, to retain their fully vaccinated
status, they need to receive a booster dose. For those aged 12 to 17,
the deadline will be set later, from 14 March 2022. This will give them
sufficient time to receive their booster dose. We urge our young to go
for their booster vaccinations as soon as possible, once they are
invited to do so 5 months after their last dose.
8.     While our high vaccination coverage and strong booster take-up
has helped to protect our population against severe illness and slowed
the spread of Omicron, we should nonetheless exercise caution in the
upcoming Chinese New Year festivities and limit our interactions with
friends and family members. This will reduce the spread of Omicron,
particularly to our vulnerable or unvaccinated family members.
UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION
9.     Our local COVID-19 situation remains under control. The numbers
in ICU care remained low at 14 as of 20 January 2022. This is despite
the rising numbers of PCR positive cases from around 800 daily last
week, to 1,472 cases on 20 January 2022, with local cases forming a
large and growing majority at 1,133 cases versus 339 imported cases. At
the same time, with the expanded use of Protocol 2, there has been an
increasing number testing positive on Antigen Rapid Tests (ARTs). In the
past week, there was a daily average of around 800 patients who tested
ART positive at healthcare facilities. As we make more pervasive use of
ART in lieu of PCR tests, it is timely for us to publish the number of
ART positive cases seen at healthcare facilities daily, alongside the
number of PCR positive cases.

10.     We expect the number of infected cases to rise sharply as the
more transmissible Omicron wave spreads through our community. Cases
could double every two to three days, and could reach 10,000 to 15,000,
or even more, cases per day. However, international and local data shows
that Omicron is less severe compared to Delta. Referencing data from
South Africa (Chart 1) and the United Kingdom (UK) (Chart 2), we can
expect hospitalisations and deaths to experience a gentler rise compared
to the steeper climb in overall case numbers.
 [MTF21012022_Chart1]
Chart 1: Reported Cases, Hospital Admissions and Deaths in South Africa
[MTF21012022_Chart2]
Chart 2: Reported Cases, Hospital Admissions and Deaths in the UK
11.   Given Omicron’s lower severity, we should focus our attention on
the numbers in ICU care instead of case numbers. Nevertheless, Omicron’s
higher transmissibility means that we cannot let our guard down, as an
uncontrolled rise in overall case numbers could still push hospital and
ICU admissions to unmanageable levels. Unvaccinated individuals, with no
protection from infection and severe illness, will continue to
disproportionately contribute to the number of severe cases requiring
acute medical care, especially the elderly (see Annex A for details).
12% of our non-fully vaccinated cases aged 60 and above were critically
ill in ICU care or died, compared to 1% of fully vaccinated cases of the
same age groups.
12.   With Omicron’s higher transmissibility, the number of
individuals with severe symptoms could be even higher than the earlier
Delta wave simply because more individuals will be infected. This will
again strain our healthcare capacity. Hence, we urge unvaccinated
individuals to get vaccinated at the earliest opportunity. We also
strongly encourage those who have completed their primary series
vaccination and are eligible to receive their booster dose to do so as
soon as possible, to maximise your protection against COVID-19 as cases
rise.
SAFEGUARDING ESSENTIAL SERVICES, PROTECTING PATIENTS AND HEALTHCARE
WORKERS
13.   As observed in other countries which have already experienced
Omicron waves, high case numbers in our workforce can disrupt business
operations. Even if workers who are infected have mild or no symptoms,
health protocols will require them to be isolated. As the number of
infections could potentially be very large, absenteeism rate can go up
very sharply.
14.  Businesses, particularly those which provide essential services,
should ensure robust business continuity plans, such as split team
arrangements, and adhere strictly to workplace SMMs to minimise
transmissions. Those returning to the workplace should self-test
themselves regularly. If unwell, workers should visit a doctor for
medical review and avoid entering their workplace.
15.   Keeping our healthcare system functioning well under such
circumstances will be a difficult challenge. To better protect our
patients and healthcare workers, particularly settings with vulnerable
persons, in-person visits to all hospital wards¹ and residential care
homes (‘Homes’) will be suspended for a period of four weeks, FROM 24
JANUARY TO 20 FEBRUARY 2022 (BOTH DATES INCLUSIVE). During this period,
Hospitals and Homes have the discretion to allow visits for exceptional
cases, for example if the patient/resident is critically ill. Visitors
would be subjected to visitor management measures (refer to Annex B for
details).
16.   To ensure that patients/residents remain connected with their
loved ones, the Hospitals and Homes will continue to support alternative
methods of communication such as through telephone or video calls.
RIGHT-SITING PATIENTS AND STREAMLINING OUR HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS
17.   NCID’s studies have shown that the viral load for Omicron
infections is lower than for Delta infections throughout the course of
the infection period. Given that and Omicron’s shorter infectious
period, we will shorten the maximum isolation period for fully
vaccinated individuals and children below the age of 12 years old for
both Protocols 1 and 2 from 10 days to 7 days. The maximum isolation
period for unvaccinated individuals aged 12 years old and above will
remain at 14 days for both Protocols 1 and 2.
18.   Since 6 January 2022, our Healthcare Protocols have focused on
managing COVID-19 cases based on the severity of their symptoms and
individual risk factors. Lower-risk individuals with mild symptoms can
now be immediately diagnosed by their primary care doctors via a
healthcare provider-administered Antigen Rapid Test (ART) and recover
safely under Protocol 2; whilst those assessed by their doctors as high
risk (e.g. elderly, pregnant, paediatrics, immunocompromised status,
etc) or with significant symptoms (e.g. chest pain, shortness of breath,
prolonged fever, etc) will be managed under Protocol 1. These higher
risk patients will also be assessed for placement on the Ministry of
Health’s (MOH) Home Recovery Programme, or further management or
monitoring in a care facility. Low-risk asymptomatic patients, including
those who test positive on self-administered ARTs, will continue to be
managed under Protocol 2.
19.  These arrangements have worked well in ensuring that medical
resources go to those who need them the most, and enabling patients to
return to normal activity as soon as possible once it is safe for them
to do so. We will therefore expand the application of Protocol 2, to
more patient groups and settings.
20.   With immediate effect, we will expand the age bracket suitable
for Protocol 2 to include CHILDREN AGED 5 TO 11 YEARS OLD, REGARDLESS OF
THEIR VACCINATION STATUS. We urge those with non-emergency conditions,
including children, to avoid seeking treatment at hospitals and to
consult their primary care doctor instead. Those who test ART positive
at non-clinical settings (e.g. unsupervised or employer supervised
self-swab tests) but who identify themselves as potentially at risk (see
Annex C) should still visit a doctor for medical advice even if they
feel well.
21.   We will also allow patients who are on Protocol 1, recovering
well and whose symptoms have improved, to transit smoothly to Protocol
2. This means that they can be discharged earlier and return to normal
activities if they test negative on a self-administered ART taken 72
hours or more after their first positive COVID-19 test.
22.  This will be progressively put in place in the coming couple of
weeks, where Protocol 2 can be applied to all low-risk, asymptomatic
individuals who are in Protocol 1 settings, such as COVID Treatment
Facilities, those who test positive for Pre-departure Tests (PDT),
Pre-event Testing (PET), Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) and mandatory
traveller tests (e.g. On-arrival Tests (OAT) and tests taken at the end
of Stay-Home Notice (SHN) periods), so long as their medical conditions
allow it.
23.  These changes enable us to deal more nimbly with Omicron and
minimise disruption to normal activities for fully vaccinated and
boosted persons even as case numbers continue to rise. MOH will continue
to monitor the situation closely and adjust our approaches as necessary.
UPDATES TO BORDER MEASURES
CALIBRATING VACCINATED TRAVEL LANE (VTL) TESTING REGIMES
24.  On 31 December 2021, we announced a four-week extension to the
enhanced 7- day testing regime for travellers arriving via VTLs in order
to facilitate the detection of imported Omicron cases and slow
transmission into the community. This has bought time for us to booster
vaccinate more residents, learn more about the Omicron variant and make
necessary adjustments to our COVID-19 strategy. As imported cases now
form a shrinking proportion of our overall cases, we will simplify the
VTL testing regime.
25.   These measures are less relevant now. Hence, VTL travellers
entering Singapore AFTER 23 JANUARY 2022, 2359 HOURS via both air and
land checkpoints will only be required to do unsupervised
self-administered ARTs from Day 2 to Day 7 of their arrivals if they
need to leave their place of residence or accommodation. Travellers need
not submit their ART results but must test negative before going out.
VTL travellers who arrive before 23 January 2022, 2359 hours are still
required to continue with the existing testing regime (i.e. unsupervised
self-administered ART on Days 2, 4, 5 and 6 with submission of results
online, and supervised ART on Days 3 and 7 from their arrival).
26.  Travellers who test positive on ARTs (i.e. the on-arrival test
for VTL-Land and unsupervised self-administered ARTs on Days 2 to 7) no
longer need to undergo a confirmatory PCR test, but should instead
simply recover under Protocol 2.² That said, those who identify
themselves as potentially at risk (as stipulated in Annex C) should
visit a doctor for medical advice after testing positive even if they
feel well.
27.   We will continue to maintain a 50% limit on VTL flight and bus
tickets for entry into Singapore for now. We will continue to review the
local and global COVID-19 situation and adjust our measures accordingly.
FACILITATING TRAVEL FOR RECENTLY-RECOVERED TRAVELLERS
28.  With the growing number of cases worldwide, there is a rise in
the number of travellers who have recently recovered from COVID-19. Such
travellers can continue to shed non-infectious viral fragments even
after they have recovered, and therefore test positive for COVID-19
despite posing no infection risk. As fully vaccinated individuals who
recently recovered from infection have a high level of immunity through
their recent COVID-19 infection and vaccination, the likelihood of
reinfection is low.
29.   Hence, travellers arriving after 23 JANUARY 2022, 2359 HOURS who
are fully vaccinated and recently recovered (i.e. within 90 days of
their last infection) will be exempted from all testing and SHN
requirements if they are able to provide appropriate documentary proof.
Non-fully vaccinated recently-recovered travellers will be exempted from
pre-departure testing requirements, but will still be subjected to all
other prevailing border measures. This will facilitate the safe return
of recently-recovered residents who travel overseas. See Annex D for the
list of documentation to be presented by such travellers at check-in and
arrival immigration to qualify for this exemption.
REGULAR REVIEW OF BORDER MEASURES
30.   A summary of the prevailing border measures can be found in
Annex D. The full set of Safe Travel Lanes for travel to Singapore and
prevailing border measures under each lane for different categories will
be updated on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are advised to visit
the website to check the latest border measures for the associated
country or region before entering Singapore; and be prepared to be
subjected to the prevailing border measures upon entry into Singapore.
31.   We will continue to monitor the global COVID-19 situation and
adjust our border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a
COVID resilient nation.
INCREASING OUR PROTECTION WITH VACCINATIONS AND BOOSTERS
32.  Vaccinations, especially boosters, will ensure we retain
substantial protection against Omicron. Boosters have helped dampen the
rise in Omicron cases thus far and increases our protection against
infection and severe illness.
33.   Interim analysis of 50 cases from KK Women and Children’s
Hospital from their COVID-19 vaccination study of 150 children aged 5 to
11 years showed that all of them developed high antibody levels in
response to two doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccine at the
paediatric dose. The rates of adverse reactions after vaccination were
lower than in adolescents, with none requiring medical review or
hospitalisation to date. With these positive findings locally, we
encourage all children aged 5 to 11 years to come forward to be
vaccinated.
EXTENSION OF BOOSTER VACCINATION PROGRAMME TO PERSONS AGED 12 TO 17
YEARS
34.   MOH and EC19V had previously recommended for all persons aged 18
years and above to receive a booster dose of an mRNA vaccine offered
under the National Vaccination Programme five months after completing
their primary vaccination series. This recommendation is now extended to
individuals aged 12 to 17 years. From early February 2022, we will
progressively invite individuals, starting with those aged 16 and 17
years, to receive their booster dose, followed by those aged 12 to 15
years.
35.  Individuals aged 12 to 17 years will require the consent of their
parent/guardian to book an appointment. Parents/guardians of these
individuals will receive an SMS with a personalised booking link to the
mobile number that they had registered with for the primary series, to
provide consent and book their child/ward’s booster vaccination
appointment. They can be boosted in any vaccination centre offering the
Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccine and should bring along their Student
Identification, or if not available, other forms of identification (e.g.
Birth Certificate/Passport/SingPass) for verification purposes.
36.   Parents/guardians of children/wards aged 13 and above are not
required to accompany them on the day of vaccination. However,
children/wards aged 12 and students of Special Education (SPED) schools
will need to be accompanied by a parent/ guardian, as per the
arrangements for the primary series vaccination. MOH and the Health
Promotion Board will work with SPED schools, and more details will be
shared by SPED schools with parents/guardians at a later date.
37.   Individuals aged 12 to 17 years who are medically ineligible for
the Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty vaccine will be offered a
Sinovac-CoronaVac booster dose under a dedicated public health
programme. This programme will also be extended to children aged 5 to 11
years who are medically ineligible for the Pfizer-BioNTech/ Comirnaty
vaccine for their primary vaccination series. Participants in the public
health programme will be closely monitored by trained medical personnel.
MOH will contact eligible persons with detailed instructions.
EXPANSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR BOOSTER DOSE
38.   As announced previously, from 14 FEBRUARY 2022, persons aged 18
years and above who have completed the primary vaccination series and
are eligible for booster vaccination will be considered as fully
vaccinated for only 270 days after the last dose in their primary
vaccination series. Upon receiving their booster, they will continue to
maintain their vaccinated status. In tandem with the immediate extension
of eligibility for booster doses to them, starting from 14 MARCH 2022,
persons aged 12 – 17 years who have completed their primary series and
are now eligible for booster vaccination will similarly be considered
fully vaccinated for only 270 days after their last primary series dose,
and will require a booster dose to maintain their vaccinated status
thereafter.
39.  Persons who have recovered from COVID-19 and have completed their
primary series vaccination³ do not require an additional booster dose at
this point in time. They will continue to be considered fully vaccinated
after 14 February 2022. However, it is safe for such persons to receive
a booster dose from five months after their last dose and our
vaccination centres will not turn away such individuals.
REMINDER TO RECEIVE BOOSTER DOSE TO MAINTAIN VACCINATED STATUS AFTER 14
FEBRUARY 2022
40.  Persons aged 12 years and above who have been offered the booster
dose should not delay receiving the booster dose beyond nine months
after the last dose of their primary vaccination series. Also, the
Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine should only be used as a booster by persons
medically contraindicated to receive the mRNA vaccines.
41.   Persons who had received two or more doses of the
Sinovac-CoronaVac or Sinopharm vaccines as part of a three-dose primary
vaccination series are strongly recommended to receive one dose of an
mRNA vaccine as a booster.
a. Persons who had received an mRNA vaccine as the third dose of their
3-dose primary series should receive their booster around FIVE MONTHS
THEREAFTER.
b. Persons who received the Sinovac-CoronaVac or Sinopharm vaccine for
all three doses should receive their booster at THREE MONTHS THEREAFTER,
due to lower antibody levels generated by the third vaccine dose.
42. We strongly encourage all those who are eligible to receive booster
doses to take them as soon as possible. This will help to keep you and
your loved ones safe.
UPDATES ON COMMUNITY SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
EXERCISING CAUTION DURING THE CHINESE NEW YEAR (CNY) FESTIVE PERIOD
43.  Our high vaccination and booster rates give us confidence that we
will be able to mitigate the impact of the Omicron wave on our society
and economy. We seek everyone’s cooperation to uphold the prevailing
SMMs especially during the CNY period:
a. HOUSE VISITS. The permissible group size for social gatherings
remains at 5 persons. Correspondingly, the maximum number of unique
visitors per household will remain at 5 persons per day. Individuals may
wish to take an ART in advance of such gatherings, particularly if there
will be elderly or unvaccinated family members present.
b. DINE IN AT FOOD & BEVERAGE (F&B) ESTABLISHMENTS. Prevailing rules at
F&B establishments will continue to apply, including to reunion dinners
or other CNY meals at these establishments. Social gatherings remain
capped at 5 persons and multiple table bookings exceeding this are not
permitted, except for those from the same household.
c. OTHER RELIGIOUS OR CUSTOMARY ACTIVITIES. Large-scale events,
including religious processions or dinner banquets (including
company-organised meals or tuan bai) will continue to be disallowed to
avoid superspreading events.
RIDING THROUGH THE OMICRON WAVE
44.   We have been monitoring data on Omicron cases and optimising our
responses to ensure we are able to ride through this wave of Omicron
cases. Boosters and vaccinations remain a critical part of our COVID-19
strategy in ensuring our population is well protected against infection
and severe illness. We urge all who are eligible for vaccinations and
booster doses to receive them as soon as possible. We seek the continued
cooperation and support of all in complying with the adjusted protocols
and measures as we pave the way to living with COVID-19.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
21 JANUARY 2022
¹ Includes public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals
² You may refer
towww.covid.gov.sg/well-and-positive-or-condition-assessed-mild-by-doctor
for more details on Protocol 2. For more information on what to do if
you feel unwell while travelling in Singapore, please refer to
www.covid.gov.sg/travellers.
³ Persons who have recovered from COVID-19 and have completed their
primary series vaccination include those who were fully vaccinated when
they were infected with COVID-19, and those who received a valid dose of
an mRNA vaccine (or two valid doses of Sinovac) after they were infected
with COVID-19.

