Resetting Our Measures to Live With the Omicron Variant



RESETTING OUR MEASURES TO LIVE WITH THE OMICRON VARIANT


Published Date: 16 Feb 2022

    We are in the midst of an Omicron wave, and seeing up to about
20,000 daily cases. This is within our expectations, given the high
transmissibility of Omicron. However, our high vaccination and booster
rates, along with vaccination-differentiated Safe Management Measures
(SMMs), have been effective in keeping the number of severe cases low,
and our healthcare capacity available to treat the severely ill
currently remains sufficient.
2.  In the coming weeks, daily case numbers may rise even further before
peaking, and may remain moderately high for some time before coming
down. We will continue to closely monitor the capacity of our healthcare
system, and prepare for further surges in infections. During this
period, our strategy remains to safeguard our healthcare capacity and
focus resources on managing severe cases and protecting vulnerable
patients. In line with this, we will continue to suspend in-person
visits to hospitals and residential care homes for an additional four
weeks.
3.  We will also further simplify our existing healthcare protocols,
workplace testing requirements, and SMMs, so that everyone can
understand the rules, focus on the measures that matter, and do our part
in making sure our measures remain effective:

a.  More age groups of patients to be managed by primary care physicians
under Protocol 2 if they exhibit mild symptoms;
b.  Shorter monitoring duration and simplified testing requirements for
those under Protocol 3 (i.e. close contacts of COVID-19 cases);
c.  Focusing the Mandatory Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) on sectors
where there are interactions with vulnerable population as well as the
provision of essential services;
d.  Streamlining the SMMs to a set of five core parameters, so that it
will be easier for everyone to comply with them on a daily basis; and
e.  Simplifying our country/region classification and streamlining our
border testing measures given the reduced impact of imported cases

4.  These measures will allow us to respond nimbly to changes in the
pandemic situation in the coming months, including to ease measures
when the Omicron wave eventually subside, or tighten up should there be
another unknown new variant.
UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION
5.  Over the past week, daily case numbers have remained high, at an
average of around 11,000 cases. The large majority of our cases continue
to have mild or no symptoms. The number of cases which are hospitalised
is around 1,400, of which about 30% are ‘incidental cases’, (i.e. they
were hospitalised due to other illness but subsequently tested to be
COVID-19 positive). Meanwhile, hospitals are also increasing bed
capacity to care for severe COVID-19 cases, while ensuring that care for
non-COVID-19 patients are not compromised. About 70 of our hospitalised
patients are children under 12 years old. The infection rates for
children aged 0 to 4 years and those aged 5 to 11 years are currently
high at about 243 and 258 per 100,000 population respectively.
Individuals aged 12 to 19 years have the highest infection rate of about
269 per 100,000 population.
6.  Aside from standing up more beds for children in our public and
private hospitals, we are also actively converting beds in our COVID-19
Treatment Facilities for children and their caregivers. The proportion
of severe COVID-19 infections and Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome in
Children associated with COVID-19 infection (MIS-C) cases is around 1
out of 1,000 paediatric infection cases. Vaccination of children will
help lower the risk of such episodes.
7.  The overall situation in our healthcare system remains stable. 23
cases are currently in ICU care, and 140 require oxygen supplementation.
In the past 28 days, 0.04% and 0.3% of local cases required ICU care or
oxygen supplementation respectively.
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO SAFEGUARD OUR HEALTHCARE SYSTEM AND RIGHT-SITE
PATIENTS

Extended Suspension of In-Person Visits to Hospitals and Residential
Care Homes
8.  We had previously suspended in-person visits to all hospital
wards[1] and residential care homes (‘Homes’) for a period of four weeks
through to 20 February 2022. As it remains crucial that we protect our
healthcare capacity and vulnerable groups, the suspension of in-persons
visits will be extended for a further four weeks, FROM 21 FEBRUARY TO 20
MARCH 2022 (BOTH DATES INCLUSIVE), with a mid-point review after two
weeks. Hospitals and Homes have the discretion to allow visits for
exceptional cases (e.g. if the patient or resident is critically ill).
These visitors will continue to be subject to visitor management
measures (see Annex A for details). Hospitals and Homes will also
continue to support alternative methods of communication such as through
telephone or video calls to ensure that patients and residents remain
connected with their loved ones.

In-situ Recovery for Selected Nursing Home Residents

9.  Currently, nursing home residents infected with COVID-19 are moved
from the nursing homes to recover at separate care facilities. However,
the majority of Omicron cases in nursing homes were mildly symptomatic
and generally did not require the level of medical care provided at
hospitals or dedicated COVID-19 care facilities. Also, moving away from
a familiar environment can be distressing to nursing home residents and
disruptive to their holistic care. Hence, FROM 16 FEBRUARY 2022, the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Agency for Integrated Care (AIC) will
progressively support nursing homes to care for their fully vaccinated
COVID-19 residents who are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic within
their premises, but isolated from the other uninfected residents. This
will allow generally well residents with COVID-19 infection to recover
safely under the care of their nursing home provider who is also most
familiar with their needs. Residents assessed to be at higher risk, or
who show signs of clinical deterioration, will continue to be conveyed
to an appropriate care facility for further management.

REVISED HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS

__Expanded Application of Protocol 2 to More Patient Groups
10.  Among patients infected since January 2022, the vast majority from
most age groups have mild symptoms and can recover safely on their own.
Even amongst the seniors, the incidence of severe illnesses have been
low. For example, amongst seniors aged 60 to 69 years who were
infected, only about 0.5% of fully vaccinated and 1.8% of non-fully
vaccinated patients were treated as severe cases. Amongst vaccinated
seniors aged 70 to 79 years, 1.2% fell severely ill after being
infected. 4.5% of 3 to 4-year olds who attended Emergency Departments
(EDs) required admission and less than 1% of them on Home Recovery
Programme were escalated to the telemedicine providers for further
management.
11.  Hence, FROM 16 FEBRUARY 2022, all patients aged 3 to 69 years,
regardless of vaccination status, and fully vaccinated[2] patients aged
70 to 79 years old can be managed by their primary care doctors under
Protocol 2[3]. This is an expansion of the current age band,
which applies to fully vaccinated patients aged 5 to 69 years, and
non-fully vaccinated patients aged 5 to 49 years. Patients falling
outside of these age brackets will continue to be managed by MOH, either
through the Home Recovery Programme or at a care facility such as a
COVID-19 Treatment Facility or a hospital. This will further right-site
the care of COVID-19 patients and ensure that our healthcare capacity is
preserved for those who require acute care. A summary of the revised
management approach for COVID-19 patients for different age groups is
in Annex B.

12.  With the above changes, individuals under Protocol 2 with
non-emergency conditions, including children, are strongly advised to
avoid seeking treatment at the EDs of hospitals and to consult their
primary care doctors or telemedicine providers should they require any
medical assistance. Individuals with non-emergency conditions turning up
at EDs may be diverted to other urgent care clinics for further
assessment, so as to prioritise ED resources for patients requiring
acute care. Individuals may also be diverted for admission to COVID-19
Treatment Facilities for further monitoring of their medical condition,
as long as they do not require hospitalisation.
Changes to Protocol 3 for Close Contacts
13.  Currently, close contacts of positive cases identified by MOH (i.e.
under Protocol 1 or Protocol 2 managed by primary care doctors) are
placed on Protocol 3. These individuals are issued with a Health Risk
Warning (HRW) lasting 7 days from the day of its issuance, with an
ART-based daily self-testing regime imposed should they wish to leave
their place of residence. However, close contacts of cases who self-test
positive (i.e. under Protocol 2) are not able to be identified and are
thus not issued the HRW.
14.  Therefore from 18 FEBRUARY 2022, we will introduce TWO KEY CHANGES
TO PROTOCOL 3. First, it will be changed from an order to an advisory,
with the Health Risk Notice (HRN) replacing the Health Risk Warning
(HRW) for close contacts identified by MOH under Protocol 3. Persons
issued with HRN can continue to obtain their ART test kits through
designated vending machines, to facilitate their self-testing during the
monitoring period[4]. Second, the recommended self-monitoring period
will be reduced from 7 days to 5 days, as individuals infected with the
Omicron variant have been shown to have a shorter incubation period.
That said, those who have already received HRWs should still complete
their existing monitoring periods[5].
15.  Regardless of whether one receives a HRN from MOH, all persons who
are aware of their recent exposure to a case should be socially
responsible and follow Protocol 3. They should moderate their social
activities, monitor their health and self-test with ART before leaving
home for that day, especially if they are going to crowded places or are
coming into contact with vulnerable individuals.
STREAMLINING THE ROSTERED ROUTINE TESTING REGIME
16.  Rostered Routine Testing (RRT) was first introduced in dormitories
and higher risk workplaces in August 2020. Over time, we have expanded
it to cover more higher-risk work settings[6], and shifted towards an
ART-based RRT.
17.  The RRT regime had served as an important part of our strategy to
facilitate early detection and containment of transmission in the
community. Testing continues to be an essential response to COVID-19.
However, we are in a different situation today and our testing strategy
needs to evolve. Our high vaccination coverage and the implementation of
Vaccination-Differentiated SMMs (VDS) offer good protection to the
workforce from severe disease due to COVID-19 infection. The high
transmissibility and shorter incubation period of the Omicron variant
have also meant a reduction in the effectiveness of RRT in containing
community transmission. Furthermore, we have shifted our focus towards
protecting the vulnerable population and managing severe cases.
18.  Therefore, FROM 18 FEBRUARY 2022, we will streamline the RRT regime
to focus only on settings catering to vulnerable groups (i.e. healthcare
sector, eldercare sector, and settings with children below 5 years
old[7]) and selected essential services sectors[8],[9]. Other sectors
which are currently on RRT will no longer be required to continue
testing from 18 February 2022.
19.  Even as we move to streamline RRT to those in vulnerable settings,
we urge individuals to continue to exercise personal responsibility and
conduct regular self-testing, especially prior to visiting crowded
places or interacting with vulnerable groups during this
period. Companies that have remaining kits that were already distributed
to them for RRT are strongly encouraged to continue testing until the
test kits are fully utilised.
UPDATES ON COMMUNITY SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES
20.  As we continue to transition to a COVID-19 resilient nation, we
will simplify and rationalise our COVID-19 rules, which have accumulated
over time and become overly complex.
21.  This rationalisation and simplification is important. Responding to
COVID-19 requires everyone to do their part. We can facilitate this by
making rules less complicated and burdensome to remember. This will also
lay the foundation for us to resume normal activities once the Omicron
wave peaks and starts to subside.
22.  We will rationalise the SMMs to FOCUS ON THE FIVE MOST IMPORTANT
AND EFFECTIVE MEASURES, making them simpler to understand and comply
with:

a.  Group sizes;
b.  Mask-wearing;
c.  Workplace requirements;
d.  Safe distancing; and
e.  Capacity limits.

23.  From 25 FEBRUARY 2022 (UNLESS OTHERWISE STATED BELOW), we will
implement the following streamlined SMMs (see Annex C). More details are
provided in the sections as follows.

Group Sizes
24.  For now, the permissible group size for social gatherings remains
at 5 persons. The maximum number of unique visitors per household will
be adjusted from 5 persons PER DAY, to 5 persons AT ANY ONE TIME.

Mask-Wearing
25.  Mask-wearing will continue to be required as a default. There are
no new exceptions.

Workplace Requirements

26.  We will maintain the current posture of allowing up to 50% of
employees who can work from home to return to the office. As part of the
streamlining of rules, workplace requirements will now be aligned with
those for the community SMMs. For instance, workers who have their masks
on will not need to maintain 1 metre safe distancing in the workplace.
Social gatherings at workplaces will be allowed to resume with up to 5
persons for each social gathering. There will be no restrictions on
cross-deployment of employees across workplaces, although employers may
continue to do so for business continuity reasons.

Safe Distancing

27.  Safe distancing is encouraged but will NOT BE REQUIRED BETWEEN
INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS IN ALL MASK-ON SETTINGS. Safe distancing
will CONTINUE TO BE REQUIRED FOR ALL MASK-OFF SETTINGS. Where safe
distancing is required, the distance will be streamlined to a single
safe distance of 1 metre for all settings.

Capacity Limits

28.  Instead of fixing size limits for various event types, we will move
to setting event sizes based on the capacity of the venue. Hence, FROM 4
MARCH 2022, we will lift specific event size limits for events such as
religious services, business events, media conferences, funerary
memorial events, wedding receptions, and mask-on classes[10]. Zoning
requirements will also be removed, as the main protection is through
masks and vaccinations.

29.  However, for large events and settings which pose more infection
risks, we will impose capacity limits, as a precaution. These will
include attractions, cruises, MICE and large work-related events, as
well as large performing arts venues or sports stadiums. For other
settings such as shopping malls and large standalone stores, the current
density limit of 10sqm/pax roughly translates to 50% capacity too. For
now, we will set the threshold at 1,000 pax. This means that:

a.  For smaller settings/events with ≤1,000 pax, they can proceed
without being subject to any capacity limit.
b.  For larger settings/events with >1,000 pax and are mask-on[11], they
would be subject to a capacity limit of 50%. For mask-off events, they
would be required to comply with the 1 metre safe distancing requirement
and prevailing group size, which will already serve to limit capacity.

See Annex D for the list of settings/events covered.
Adjustments to VDS

30.  From 25 FEBRUARY 2022, unvaccinated children aged 12 years and
below (i.e. born in 2010 or later) need not be from the same household
to be included within a group entering premises or participating in
activities with VDS.

Resuming Sports
31.  The main driver of COVID-19 transmission has been prolonged close
contact with infected persons, such as when eating together. There has
been no compelling evidence showing that transient contact while playing
sports leads to infections. Conversely, two years of SMMs have taken
its toll on the physical, emotional and mental well-being of our people,
especially the young.
32.  With the rationalisation of SMMs, from 25 FEBRUARY 2022, all sports
will be allowed to proceed with up to 30 fully vaccinated persons
(including players, coaches, umpires etc) , at supervised/operated
sports facilities (e.g. ActiveSG facilities and approved private
facilities). The prevailing SMMs will apply before and after the sport
activity, and during rest breaks. No additional testing requirement will
be imposed as long as all participants are fully vaccinated, but
participants are strongly encouraged to self-test before arriving for
the sports activity, and to stay home if they test positive or develop
symptoms.
33.  For all the updates on community SMMs above, relevant agencies will
provide more details on the requirements specific to their sector.
UPDATES TO BORDER MEASURES
Streamlining of Country/Region Classification and Border Measures
34.  To date, our border measures such as pre-departure testing and
Stay-Home Notice (SHN) had been aimed at controlling the number of
imported cases. As Singapore’s incidence rate is now comparable with
most overseas destinations, imported cases are unlikely to affect the
trajectory of local cases. Our focus has thus shifted to facilitating
inflows from travellers who are less likely to become severely ill and
burden our healthcare capacity while they are in Singapore. As
vaccination offers good protection against severe disease, we will
continue to work towards allowing SHN-free travel for all fully
vaccinated travellers.
35.  To better position ourselves to do so, we will begin by
streamlining the country/region classification. The existing Categories
II, III, and IV will be combined into a single General Travel category.
Fully vaccinated travellers arriving via Vaccinated Travel Lane (VTL)
arrangements can continue to enjoy quarantine-free border measures. For
now, all travellers from Category I countries/regions, which have very
low infection rates, will continue to enjoy quarantine-free travel
arrangements as well[12]. We will also create a new Restrictedcategory
for countries/regions with developing COVID-19 situations that warrant
stricter border measures imposed on arrivals. Under our revised
classification, we would start with no Restricted countries/regions.
36.  In tandem, we will simplify border measures for travellers
arriving FROM 21 FEBRUARY 2022, 2359 HOURS, as follows:

a.  Travel history requirement will be reduced from 14 to 7 days;
b.  SHN duration will be standardised to 7 days across all
country/region categories in view of Omicron’s shorter incubation
period;
c.  Enhanced testing regime for travellers arriving on VTLs will be
ceased;
d.  VTL and Category I travellers will no longer need to perform an
on-arrival PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) test. Instead, they will
have up to 24 hours from their entry into Singapore to take a supervised
self-swab (SSS) ART[13] at one of the testing centres located across
Singapore; and
e.  Vaccinated Long-Term Pass Holders[14](except Work Permit holders)
will no longer have to obtain a Vaccinated Travel Pass (VTP) or an Entry
Approval to enter Singapore. They will still need to adhere to border
health measures on entry. Please refer to Annex E for more details.
f.  To further facilitate vaccinated travel, we will restore and
progressively increase VTL quotas. VTL (Air) quotas will be fully
restored with IMMEDIATE EFFECT. VTL (Land) quotas will be fully
restored FROM 22 FEBRUARY 2022 (sales for additional bus tickets will
commence on 16 February 2022).

 Restoring and Expanding Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTL)

37.  A new VTL with Hong Kong and the previously deferred VTLs with
Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will also be
launched. VTP applications for travel from these four countries/regions
will open on 22 FEBRUARY 2022, 1000 HOURS, and the first VTL flights
will take place from 25 FEBRUARY 2022. We will progressively launch VTLs
with more destinations as we move towards facilitating fully vaccinated
travel.
38.  Bi-directional quarantine-free sea travel between Singapore and
Indonesia will resume with the launch of VTL (Sea) from Bintan and
Batam. The VTL (Sea) will benefit users of Indonesia’s travel bubble to
specific resorts in Bintan and Batam and facilitate short-term leisure
travel. VTP applications will open on 22 FEBRUARY 2022, 1000 HOURS, and
the first ferry trip will take place on 25 FEBRUARY 2022.
39.  The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS), Ministry of Trade
& Industry (MTI) and Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA) will
provide further details for VTL(Air), VTL(Land) and VTL(Sea)
respectively. We will continue to monitor the global COVID-19 situation
and adjust our border measures in tandem with our roadmap to becoming a
COVID-resilient nation.
40.  The updated classification and associated border requirements can
be found in Annex F and on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are
advised to visit the website to check the latest border measures for the
associated country or region before entering Singapore, and be prepared
to adhere to the prevailing border measures upon entry into Singapore.
RIDING THROUGH THE OMICRON WAVE
41.  Our current measures serve as important safeguards to protect our
healthcare system during this period as we continue to lead our daily
lives normally. To ride out this wave safely, it remains key that we get
our vaccination and booster doses promptly when offered, comply with
existing safe management measures, and exercise personal responsibility
to self-test before visiting crowded places or interacting with
vulnerable groups such as seniors or children. Those who are tested
positive should follow the latest health protocols. Patients should
refrain from seeking medical attention at the EDs if they have only mild
symptoms, so that EDs can focus on taking care of acutely ill patients.
Only then can we emerge stronger to resume our transition towards safe
re-opening and living with COVID-19.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
16 FEBRUARY 2022



[1] Includes public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals.

[2] Individuals may check whether they are considered “fully vaccinated”
at https://go.gov.sg/vax-status-query.

[3] Those who test ART positive at non-clinical settings (e.g.
unsupervised self-swab or supervised self-swab by test providers in
non-clinical settings) but who belong to at-risk groups visit a doctor
for medical advice even if they feel well. The list of at-risk groups
can be found in Annex B.

[4] For the healthcare, eldercare, and preschool sectors, additional
requirements may be put in place for close contacts to protect the
vulnerable individuals in these settings.

[5] Individuals issued with HRWs prior to 18 February 2022 will be
required to complete their monitoring period and testing requirements
under the current HRW protocol.

[6] Those currently on RRT includes: border frontline workers, COVID-19
frontline workers, staff interacting with vulnerable population (e.g.
healthcare/eldercare workers, children aged below 12 years old),
dorm-dwelling workers, Construction, Marine and Process workers, staff
in dine-in F&B establishments, personal care services, gyms and fitness
studios, retail mall and supermarket staff, last-mile delivery workers
(including parcel and food delivery personnel), public and private
transport workers, and workers in essential services.

[7] This includes staff as well as third-party vendors in preschools,
Early Intervention centres, and Private Education Institutions with
children less than 5 years old.

[8] Sectors which will continue on RRT as essential services will be
informed by their respective Sector Lead agencies via sector-specific
communication channels at a later date.

[9]  Sectors may choose to continue using the existing Swab Registration
System (SRS) to upload their RRT test results. They may also onboard
businesses onto “Sync”, a new platform launched this week by Open
Government Products that enables individuals to easily declare their
self-swab results and provide consent for sharing ART and PCR test
results and vaccination statuses with organisations and
employers. Companies can be onboarded to Sync via sync.gov.sg.

[10] These refer to events held outside the home. For home
solemnisations, there can be up to 10 attendees or 5 non-resident
visitors (whichever is higher). For home funerals, the current
arrangement of up to 30 attendees remains. Refer to the relevant
sectoral advisories for more details.

[11] For example, for a 1,200 pax event, the event would need to be held
at a venue which accommodates 2,400 pax, or the event size would have to
be capped at 1,000 pax. Events where 1m safe distancing and group size
limits apply will not be subject to the 50% capacity limit, as the SMMs
already ensure spreading out of attendees.

[12]Taking into account recent developments in Hong Kong’s COVID-19
situation, we will reclassify Hong Kong to the General Travel category
with effect from 24 FEBRUARY 2022, 2359 HOURS. To minimise disruptions
to vaccinated travellers, we will concurrently launch a VTL with Hong
Kong (please see para 38 for details).

[13] Travellers should visit Quick Test Centres (QTCs) or Combined Test
Centres (CTCs) for their OAT SSS ART. The weblink to book tests at QTCs
or CTCs will be provided in the Testing Notice issued to travellers upon
their entry into Singapore . Travellers should self-isolate prior to
receiving the OAT test result and use private transport when going to
the testing site. If you feel unwell, please visit a clinic for medical
advice via private transport.

[14] Individuals below the age of 12 will be able to enter without proof
of vaccination. Unvaccinated or partially vaccinated individuals aged 12
to 17 years old at the point of arrival can enter without proof of
vaccination on the condition that they complete the full vaccination
regimen within two months after they arrive in Singapore. Pass holders
who are medically ineligible for vaccination may appeal for exemption
from the vaccination requirement, supported by a doctor’s memo. The
proof of exemption will need to be presented prior to boarding.
