Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination: Updated Recommendation On Use
of Covid-19 Vaccines



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION: UPDATED RECOMMENDATION ON USE OF COVID-19 VACCINES


Published Date: 14 Feb 2022

1.      The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination notes the interim
authorisation of the Novavax Nuvaxovid COVID-19 vaccine ("Nuvaxovid") by
the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) under the Pandemic Special Access
Route (PSAR), for use in Singapore in individuals aged 18 years and
above to prevent COVID-19.
2.      The Expert Committee has independently reviewed the Nuvaxovid
vaccine's safety and efficacy data, and has been briefed by HSA on its
full range of considerations in granting interim authorisation.
3.      Nuvaxovid is a protein subunit vaccine. In its key Phase III
clinical trial study, two doses of Nuvaxovid demonstrated a vaccine
efficacy of 90% against symptomatic infection and 100% against severe
disease with the wildtype SARS-CoV-2 and the Alpha variant. There is no
data available on its efficacy with the Delta or Omicron variants.
4.      There have been no significant safety concerns identified with
Nuvaxovid. Most side effects were mild to moderate in severity and
resolved in one to three days. These included injection site pain,
fatigue, headache and muscle aches.
5.      In addition, the COV-Boost vaccine trial, a multicentre,
randomised, controlled, phase 2 trial in the UK with more than 2,800
participants, which studied various vaccines for booster vaccination
showed that Nuvaxovid as a booster vaccine resulted in a substantial
rise in antibody level and cellular response, although this was to a
lower extent when compared to boosting with mRNA vaccines.
6.      Considering its safety, efficacy and tolerability, the Expert
Committee recommends Nuvaxovid as an acceptable alternative to the mRNA
vaccines in individuals aged 18 years and above, although the mRNA
vaccines still remain the preferred vaccines due to their higher
efficacy and the stronger immune response they generate. Persons who
receive Nuvaxovid for their primary vaccination series are recommended
to receive two doses of the vaccine taken 21 days apart.
7.      Nuvaxovid is also recommended as an acceptable alternative to
the mRNA vaccines for booster vaccination for persons 18 years and
above. One dose of the Nuvaxovid vaccine is recommended as a booster
dose about 5 months after the last dose of the primary series
vaccination.
8.      In view of the lower efficacy of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine,
Nuvaxovid is preferred to Sinovac-Coronavac for persons medically
ineligible¹ to receive the mRNA vaccines. Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine
should only be used by persons who are medically ineligible for the mRNA
vaccines and Nuvaxovid.
9.      The availability of Nuvaxovid will offer persons medically
ineligible for the mRNA vaccines a good alternative to achieve vaccine
protection against COVID-19. The committee encourages all eligible
persons to be vaccinated and boosted at the earliest opportunity.
EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
14 FEBRUARY 2022
 [1] Individuals who are medically ineligible for mRNA COVID-19 vaccines
include those who developed anaphylaxis/severe allergic reactions or
myocarditis/pericarditis to a previous dose of any mRNA vaccine.


