125 Nurses Recognised With Nurses’ Merit Award



125 NURSES RECOGNISED WITH NURSES’ MERIT AWARD


Published Date: 06 Jul 2022

          125 nurses were presented with the Nurses’ Merit Award (NMA)
by Minister for Health, Mr Ong Ye Kung, on 6 July 2022. The NMA started
in 1976 and is awarded to nurses who have displayed noteworthy and
exceptional performance, participated in professional development, and
contributed to raising the nursing profession. Nurses are nominated for
the award by their healthcare institutions and selected by a panel set
up by the Ministry of Health (MOH).



2.  The award recipients come from various care settings,
spanning the community care sector, private hospitals and public
healthcare institutions. The award comes with a medal to be worn as part
of the nurse’s uniform and a cash prize of $1,000. Please refer to the
Annex for the list of award recipients.



STRENGTHENING CONTINUED LEARNING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT FOR NURSES



3.  MOH remains committed to developing the nursing
profession by creating opportunities for nurses to upskill and enhance
their professional development throughout their nursing careers.



Palliative and Geriatric Nursing Competency Frameworks



4.  Following the publication of the Community Nursing
Competency Framework in 2020, two more competency frameworks – the
Palliative and Geriatric Nursing Competency Frameworks – have been
developed and will be published on the National Nursing Academy (NNA)
website in August. The two new competency frameworks will provide
clarity on the job roles, responsibilities and the associated
professional competencies for nurses working in palliative and geriatric
care settings to meet the growing healthcare needs of the ageing
population in Singapore. The competency frameworks will serve as a guide
for nurses and employers to identify skills gaps and pursue development
opportunities.



Integrated Advanced Practice Nurse (APN) Internship Programme



5.  MOH will continue to strengthen training for Advanced
Practice Nurses (APNs), who have acquired the expert knowledge base,
complex decision-making skills and clinical competencies for extended
practice. APNs are trained in the diagnosis and management of common
medical conditions, including chronic illnesses. The APN internship
programme, which forms part of the training for APNs, is regularly
reviewed to ensure its training methods and curriculum delivery
encourage optimal learning. To date, there are a total of 321 APNs in
Singapore.



6.  Last year, we introduced a new Integrated APN Internship
Programme (IAI)¹, which facilitates an early integration of Master of
Nursing graduates to their respective areas of clinical practice and
emphasises work-place based assessments that would form the requirement
towards APN certification. Since its commencement last August, 31 APN
interns have enrolled to IAI.



National Nursing Academy



7.  The NNA was launched in 2020 as a one-stop portal to meet
the learning needs and facilitate portability of workplace-based
training of nurses across institutions and settings.



8.  As of 1 May 2022, a total of 97 workplace-based and
academic nursing Continuing Education and Training (CET) short courses
and programmes have been listed on the NNA website. Among these, eight
CET courses have been accredited by the NNA. Courses that meet the NNA’s
accreditation standards support the portability of acquired competencies
across healthcare institutions. Courses listed on the NNA are open for
nurses from across institutions to apply. More courses will be
accredited over time. To find out more about the course listings
including the NNA-accredited courses, please visit
https://www.nna.gov.sg/learning-nna.



9.  Other upcoming features of the NNA portal include an
“Events Calendar” to publicise local nursing events. Nurses will be able
to find out more about upcoming events and link up with organising
institutions for more information. The enhanced feature will be ready by
end July.



10.  MOH will continue to develop the nursing profession by
creating opportunities for nurses to upskill and enhance their
professional development throughout their nursing careers. We
congratulate all awardees and thank them for their outstanding
contributions to the nursing profession and immense dedication to their
patients.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH
6 JULY 2022

[1] Details on the integrated APN Internship Programme have been shared
in the MOH press release for Nurses’ Merit Award 2021
(https://www.moh.gov.sg/news-highlights/details/125-nurses-recognised-with-nurses'-merit-award).
