Easing of Community Smms and Border Measures



EASING OF COMMUNITY SMMS AND BORDER MEASURES


Published Date: 24 Mar 2022

               It has been more than a week since the introduction of
the Safe Management Measures (SMM) 1-5 framework. This was done with a
view of simplifying and streamlining the rules, thus enabling us to ease
the SMMs along these five parameters, once there was an improvement in
our overall healthcare situation.



2.  Thanks to the collective efforts of everyone in
Singapore, the daily local case numbers and the number of COVID-19
related hospitalisations have declined steadily. While the workload of
our healthcare workers remains high with the increase in non-COVID-19
admissions, our overall conditions have improved significantly. We are
now in a position to make a significant move to ease our community SMMs,
and make further progress towards living with COVID-19.



3.  In tandem with the easing of community SMMs, we will also
facilitate the resumption of travel by transiting to a Vaccinated Travel
framework, where all fully vaccinated travellers can enjoy
quarantine-free entry into Singapore without the need to enter under
specific Vaccinated Travel Lanes (VTLs).



4.  Even as we move towards normalcy, it is necessary to
adequately protect vulnerable segments in our society who are at higher
risk of falling severely ill from COVID-19. As such, we have accepted
the recommendation by the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination
(EC19V) to offer a second booster dose to persons aged 80 years and
above, residents of aged care facilities, as well as medically
vulnerable persons with co-morbidities. These groups are most affected
by waning vaccine efficacy over time. The second booster dose should be
taken five months after receiving their first booster dose.



UPDATES ON THE LOCAL SITUATION



5.  Daily case numbers and COVID-19 hospitalisations have
continued to decline steadily in the past week. The 7-day moving average
of daily case numbers has fallen from around 13,000 to under 10,000.
More importantly, the number of hospitalisations has fallen from 1,238
to 951. Incidence of severe illness has also remained low. In the past
28 days, 0.04% and 0.3% of local cases required ICU care or oxygen
supplementation respectively.



UPDATES ON COMMUNITY SMMS



6.  The SMM 1-5 framework consists of five key parameters:
(i) group sizes; (ii) mask-wearing; (iii) workplace requirements; (iv)
safe distancing; and (v) capacity limits. As the local situation has
improved considerably, we will ease the community SMMs along these five
parameters.  From 29 MARCH 2022, we will implement the following
adjustments (see Annex A for more details):



a.  Group Sizes. The permissible group size for social gatherings will
be increased from 5 persons to 10 PERSONS FOR MASK-OFF ACTIVITIES. The
maximum number of unique visitors per household will also be adjusted
from 5 persons at any one time, to 10 PERSONS AT ANY ONE TIME.



b.  Mask-Wearing. MASK-WEARING WILL CONTINUE TO BE REQUIRED FOR INDOOR
SETTINGS WHEN PEOPLE LEAVE THEIR HOMES, BUT WILL BE OPTIONAL IN OUTDOOR
SETTINGS. However, we encourage individuals to wear their masks even
when outdoors for personal protection and to protect others, especially
in crowded areas. Indoor places refer to all buildings/places with
clearly defined entrances/exits, such as office buildings, shopping
malls, public transport (i.e. when commuting in trains and buses), and
includes hawker centres and coffeeshops. Places which are sheltered but
with open access generally, such as Housing Development Board (HDB) void
decks, retail block walkways, bus stops, and naturally ventilated bus
interchanges will be regarded as outdoor areas. __ See Annex B for more
examples.



c.  Workplace Requirements. UP TO 75% of employees who are able to
work from home can now return to the workplace, an increase from the
current limit of 50%. We will continue to align the rules for social
gatherings in workplaces and other social settings, so long as the
general group size and masking rules are adhered to.



d.  Safe Distancing. Safe distancing continues to be encouraged but
will not be required between individuals or groups for mask-on settings.
A SAFE DISTANCE OF 1 METRE WILL CONTINUE TO BE REQUIRED FOR MASK-OFF
SETTINGS. between individuals or between groups up to the prevailing
group size limit. Notwithstanding this, we still need to guard against
gatherings of big crowds, even if they have their masks on. Hence, we
will continue to impose capacity limits, as described below.



e.  Capacity Limits. The capacity limit of 50% for large events and
settings of more than 1,000 pax¹ will be increased to 75%. This means
that:

  i.  For smaller settings/events
with ≤1,000 pax, they can proceed without being subject to any capacity
limit.

  ii.  For larger settings/events
with >1,000 pax and that are mask-on², they will be subject to operating
within 75% of the capacity limit of the venue. For mask-off events,
individuals or groups of individuals up to the prevailing group size
will be required to comply with the 1 metre safe distancing requirement.

See Annex C for the list of settings/events covered.





Other Activity-Specific Adjustments



7.  In line with the above easing under the SMM 1-5
framework, we will also make the following activity-specific adjustments
from 29 MARCH 2022.



8.  Dine-in at food and beverage (F&B) establishments. In
line with the increase in group size, groups of up to 10 fully
vaccinated persons will be allowed to dine-in at F&B establishments,
including hawker centres and coffee shops, where full
vaccination-differentiated SMMs (VDS) checks have been implemented at
their entrances. To ease the operational burden for F&B operators, we
will allow all F&B establishments to seat smaller groups of up to 5
fully vaccinated persons, without the need for full VDS checks at their
entrance. Instead, random spot-checks will be done to ensure that only
vaccinated persons are dining-in at these places, and the onus will be
on the dining-in individuals to abide by the rules. This will make it
easier for the F&B operators who face difficulties in cordoning off
their venues and setting up discrete access control points especially
hawker centres and coffee-shops.



9.  Alcohol consumption. The current restriction, in F&B
establishments, on the sale and consumption of alcohol after 10.30pm
will be lifted.



10.  Live performances and screening of programmes. Live
performances will be allowed to resume at all venues, including F&B
establishments. Outdoor live performances and busking³ will also be
allowed to resume.  Groups that are involved in the performances will
have to comply with the prevailing SMM 1-5, i.e. keep to the group size
of 10 unmasked persons. We will also lift the restriction on the
screening of live broadcast programmes and recorded entertainment in F&B
establishments.



11.  Vocalisation activities. We had previously taken a strong
position against group vocalisation activities because of the higher
risk of transmission. But we are now in a different situation and can
start easing this restriction. Subject to masks being worn throughout
the vocalisation activity, we will allow the following activities which
involve vocalisation by large groups:

a.  Congregational singing and chanting;

b.  Cheering by audiences/spectators/participants at events; and

c.  Singing in general settings, including in schools.



12.  Social events and larger-scale social gatherings. Except
for marriage solemnisations and wedding receptions, which are key life
events, we have held back from allowing larger-scale social gatherings
and events such as gala dinners, corporate dinner-and-dance events
(D&Ds), birthday celebrations and anniversaries.  Given the stabilising
local situation and for consistency with other events, we will allow
such social events and gatherings to resume. Organisers of these events
should still comply the prevailing SMM 1-5. That means there should be
no more than 10 persons per table, and safe distancing of 1 m maintained
between tables. Participants should also continue to exercise prudence
and restraint, and limit their interactions to the same group they are
seated with.



13.  The above changes will all take effect from 29 March 2022.
The relevant agencies will provide more details on any further detailed
requirements specific to their sectors.



14.  We are separately looking into the safe resumption of
nightlife businesses, comprising bars, pubs, karaoke establishments,
discotheques and nightclubs. These are activities with much higher risks
of transmission and where there are generally more difficulties
complying with the prevailing SMM 1-5. MTI and MHA will provide an
update on the re-opening of the sector in the coming weeks.



SUPPORTING LITERACY AND LEARNING FOR YOUNG CHILDREN



15.  Currently, children aged 6 years and above are required to
wear a mask when they leave their homes, while children younger than 6
are strongly encouraged to mask up when there is interaction with
others. While this affords young children protection against COVID-19
infection, it may also make it more challenging for them, especially
those with listening or learning difficulties, to develop language and
literacy skills. In line with the national transition towards COVID-19
resiliency, the Ministry of Education (MOE) and Early Childhood
Development Agency (ECDA) will offer selected groups of teachers and
students in schools, preschools and Early Intervention Centres the
flexibility to remove their masks during language and literacy lessons
to better support children’s learning and development needs. These
groups include children with hearing loss, speech articulation issues,
or learning difficulties such as dyslexia. MOE and ECDA will share
details.



RATIONALISATION OF SMMS FOR MIGRANT WORKERS (MWS) LIVING IN DORMITORIES



16.  The Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will also align the SMMs for
MWs living in dormitories with the latest community SMMs.



17.  In addition, FROM 1 APRIL 2022, vaccinated MWs will no
longer need to apply for Exit Passes to visit recreation centres (RCs).
Only unvaccinated MWs must continue to apply for Exit Passes and also
fulfil their pre-visit ART before visiting the RCs. For community
visits, we earlier increased the quota of community visit slots for
vaccinated MWs from 3,000 on weekdays, and 6,000 for weekends and public
holidays to 15,000 and 30,000 respectively. This quota will remain the
same, but there will no longer be a need to do pre-visit ART. To
safeguard unvaccinated MWs against infection, they would still not be
allowed to visit the community.



CESSATION OF ROSTERED ROUTINE TESTING (RRT) REGIME



18.  As part of our shift in focus towards protecting the
vulnerable and in view of the reduced effectiveness of RRT in containing
the Omicron variant given its shorter incubation period and higher
transmissibility, we had earlier streamlined RRT to apply only to
settings catering to vulnerable groups and selected essential services
sectors.



19.  As the COVID-19 situation eases, we will optimise our
testing strategy further. The high vaccination and booster coverage
among the sectors still on RRT, and their strict compliance to their
specific safe management measures are sufficient to protect the
individuals within these sectors, now that we have passed the peak of
the Omicron wave. Therefore, FROM 29 MARCH 2022, we will stop RRT for
all sectors⁴. With this, the Government subsidies provided for companies
on RRT will also end on 29 March 2022. Employers and businesses who wish
to impose regular testing at the workplace at their cost may continue to
do so. Individuals are still encouraged to self-test when they feel
unwell or had recent contact with an infected person, and to follow the
necessary health protocols if they test positive. Companies should
continue to allow their employees to rest at home from their COVID
infection if they test positive, without the need for a medical
certificate or recovery memo.



EXPANDING PROTOCOL 2 TO PAEDIATRIC COVID-19 PATIENTS AGED 12 MONTHS TO 2
YEARS OLD



20.  We had earlier allowed patients aged 3 to 69 years to
recover at home under Protocol 2 regardless of vaccination status, as
the vast majority of people in this age group can recover safely on
their own. Local clinical data collected during the Omicron wave
indicates that most children in the 12 months to 2 years old age group
also experience mild symptoms and recover uneventfully in the community.
Hence, in consultation with the paediatric specialist community, MOH
will now expand the eligible age band. From 25 March 2022, patients aged
12 months to 2 years old will also be managed under Protocol 2 by
default, either at home or under the care of their primary care
physicians or paediatricians. See Annex D for the revised default
management of COVID-19 patients across all age groups.



MOVE TO VACCINATED TRAVEL FRAMEWORK



21.  Over the past few months, we have simplified our
country/region classification and border measures to pave the way for
more Vaccinated Travel. With many countries/regions having passed the
peak of their Omicron wave and our local COVID-19 situation stabilising,
we are ready to launch the Vaccinated Travel Framework for all
travellers including Short-Term Visitors (STVs). We will classify all
countries/regions either under the General Travel or the Restricted
Category and accord border measures by individual travellers’
vaccination status. All countries/regions will come under the General
Travel Category to begin with. There are no countries/regions in the
Restricted Category currently.



General Travel Category Border Measures



22.  From 31 MARCH 2022, 2359 HOURS, the border measures for
travellers arriving via air or sea checkpoints from countries/regions in
the General Travel Category will be as follows:



a.  All fully vaccinated travellers⁵ and non-fully vaccinated children
aged 12 and below⁶ are permitted to enter Singapore. They will not need
to apply for entry approvals or take designated VTL transport. They will
continue to be subjected to a pre-departure test (PDT) within 2 days
before departure for Singapore, but will no longer be required to serve
a Stay-Home Notice (SHN) or undergo an unsupervised Antigen Rapid Test
(ART) after arriving in Singapore. We will continue to monitor the local
and global COVID-19 situations and consider removing the PDT requirement
in the coming weeks;



b.  Non-fully vaccinated Long-Term Pass Holders (LTPHs) and STVs aged
13 and above are generally not allowed to enter Singapore, with the
following exceptions (i) LTPHs medically ineligible for vaccines ; (ii)
LTPHs aged 13 to 17, subject to the appropriate measures⁷ and (iii)
LTPHs and STVs with other valid entry approval (e.g. for compassionate
reasons). They are required to take a PDT within 2 days before departure
for Singapore, undergo a 7-day SHN, and take a PCR test at the end of
their SHN period.



23.  To facilitate Singapore Citizens (SCs), Permanent Residents
(PRs), Work Pass Holders and other LTPHs who may face difficulties
obtaining valid PDTs within 2 days before returning to Singapore, we
have introduced remote supervised ART services by approved licensed
providers in Singapore for such travellers arriving from selected
countries. Going forward, we will accept Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
tests, professionally administered ARTs and ARTs supervised by approved
licensed providers in Singapore (including remotely supervised ARTs)
taken within 2 days before departure for Singapore as valid PDTs.
Travellers who wish to use the remotely supervised ART PDT services
licensed in Singapore should book their slots early with these providers
via their respective websites and bring along approved ART kits from
Singapore for their remotely supervised ART. Refer to
https://go.gov.sg/remote-art-overseas-sg for a list of approved remotely
supervised ART PDT providers, and the travellers and countries/regions
that this service applies to.



24.  We are also working towards the full resumption of land
travel with Malaysia for fully vaccinated persons. Details on the exact
border measures for fully vaccinated travellers entering Singapore via
the land borders will be announced jointly with Malaysia.



Restricted Category Border Measures



25.  In the event of a new variant with potentially significant
public health risk, we may re-classify significantly affected
countries/regions under the Restricted Category with stringent border
measures, such as the need for entry approvals for STVs to enter
Singapore. This is to enable us to limit the risk of importing new and
potentially dangerous variants if they arise, as well as to buy time for
experts to better understand the characteristics of these variants and
to develop appropriate public health recommendations.⁸



26.  See Annex E for details on the border measures for
travellers arriving from 31 MARCH 2022, 2359 hours. The latest border
requirements can be found on the SafeTravel website. Travellers are
strongly advised to visit the website to check the latest border
measures before entering Singapore, and be prepared to adhere to the
prevailing border measures upon entry into Singapore.



UPDATES TO CHARGING POLICIES FOR VACCINATED TRAVELLERS



27.  Currently, SCs/PRs/LTPH travellers are responsible for
medical bills in hospitals and dedicated COVID-19 treatment and recovery
facilities, if they develop onset of symptoms or test positive for
COVID-19 within 14 days of their return to Singapore. With the
introduction of the Vaccinated Travel Framework, we will streamline our
charging policies for travellers as follows:



a.  The charging policy for SCs/PRs/LTPH travellers who are subjected
to General Travel Category border measures will be aligned with the
prevailing charging policy for treatment of local community COVID-19
cases (i.e. non-travellers). This means that such travellers who have
been fully vaccinated9 will no longer be required to pay for medical
bills incurred for COVID-19 treatment in hospitals and CTFs, even if
they develop onset of symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 within 14
days of their return to Singapore. Any future changes to the charging
policy for local community cases will correspondingly apply to this
group of travellers. Travellers who are not fully vaccinated will remain
responsible for their COVID-19 treatment costs, as per the charging
policy for unvaccinated individuals who contracted COVID-19 in the
community.



b.  SCs/PRs/LTPH travellers who are subjected to Restricted Category
border measures, will be required to pay for medical bills in hospitals
and dedicated COVID-19 treatment and recovery facilities, if they
develop onset of symptoms or test positive for COVID-19 within 7 days of
their return to Singapore, regardless of their vaccination status.



28.  The above measures will apply to all new admissions from
henceforth. Patients who are to pay for their medical bills may continue
to tap on their regular healthcare financing arrangements to help pay
for their bills.10 For avoidance of doubt, there is no change to the
charging policy for Short Term Pass Holders, who remain responsible for
any COVID-19 medical bill incurred, throughout their stay in Singapore.



UPDATES ON VACCINATION PROGRESS AND CLOSURE OF VACCINATION CENTRES



29.  As of 22 March 2022, over 92% of our population have
completed their primary series vaccinations and 71% have received their
booster doses. The paediatric vaccination exercise for children aged
between 5 to 11 years old has also progressed well with over 76% of the
eligible population having taken at least their first dose, including
about 85% of our primary school students. Hence, the number of doses
administered have reduced steadily over the past weeks.



30.  In view of that, MOH will progressively step down the
number of Vaccination Centres (VC), starting from end-April 2022, and
free up these space for other uses.



a.  Marine Parade Community Club (CC) will cease operations on 30
April 2022 while Woodlands CC and Nee Soon East CC’s last day of
operation will be on 31 May 2022. Marine Parade CC will administer the
last Dose 1 on 9 April 2022 and continue to administer Dose 2/booster
doses until 30 April 2022. Woodlands CC and Nee Soon East CC will
administer the last Dose 1 on 2 May 2022 and 10 May 2022 respectively.
Both CCs will continue to administer Dose 2/booster doses until 31 May
2022.



b.  There are currently 13 paediatric VCs, and 12 will remain
operational until end-April 2022.¹¹ From May to July 2022, MOH plans to
reduce the number of paediatric VCs from 12 to 2, as most of the 5 to 11
years old would have completed their primary series vaccinations. MOH
will progressively onboard selected Public Health Preparedness Clinics
and Polyclinics to provide paediatric vaccine doses to children who have
yet to receive their primary series vaccination. Further details will be
announced at a later date.



SECOND BOOSTER DOSE FOR PERSONS AGED 80 AND ABOVE AND THE MEDICALLY
VULNERABLE



31.  Given emerging international data on the waning of vaccine
protection against severe disease with time, EC19V has recommended a
second booster dose for persons who are medically susceptible to severe
COVID-19. This will help ensure that these at-risk groups remain highly
protected as we resume normal activities. MOH agrees with EC19V’s
recommendation for the following groups to receive a second booster
dose, around five months after receiving their first booster dose:



a.  All persons aged 80 years and above;



b.  Persons living in aged care facilities, such as nursing homes; and



c.  Medically vulnerable persons who are at increased risk of severe
disease due to significant medical risk factors¹².



32.  The recommendation for persons belonging to these at-risk
groups to receive a second booster dose will not affect their
vaccination status for VDS. They are strongly encouraged to go for the
second booster to protect themselves. More details on how at-risk groups
can receive their second booster dose will be announced later.



33.   There are currently no recommendations from the EC19V for
healthy persons in younger age groups to receive a second booster dose,
as they have better immune responses to vaccination and are at lower
risks of severe disease.



TOWARDS COVID-19 RESILIENCE



34.  The stabilisation of our local COVID-19 situation has
allowed us to the ease our community SMMs and border measures. We have
crossed the peak of the recent wave because of the hard work and
sacrifices of our healthcare workers, and our collective efforts in
adhering to SMMs and health protocols. However, we will need to stay
vigilant. As we relax our SMM and travel postures, it will be even more
important for everyone in Singapore to stay disciplined in our fight
against COVID-19, by adhering to the prevailing SMMs and following the
appropriate health protocols, so as to avoid a resurgence of
hospitalisation and severe illness, which could slow or even undo our
progress towards gradual resumption. By working together, we can look
forward to achieving COVID-19 resiliency as a nation.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
24 MARCH 2022



[1] Large events and settings include attractions, cruises, MICE and
large work-related events, as well as large performing arts venues and
sports stadiums. For other settings such as shopping malls and large
standalone stores, the density limit of 7 sqm/pax roughly translates to
75% capacity.
[2] For example, for a 1,200 pax event, the event would need to be held
at a venue which accommodates 1,600 pax, otherwise the event size would
have to be capped at 1,000 pax. Events where 1m safe distancing and
group size limits apply will not be subject to the 75% capacity limit,
as the SMMs already ensure spreading out of attendees and the lowering
of risk through mask-wearing.
[3] Busking will resume per the National Arts Council (NAC) Busking
Scheme. Please refer to the NAC website for details.
[4] This includes settings with children below 5 years old (e.g.
preschools, Early Intervention Centres, and private education
institutions). Data continues to show that COVID-19 is a mild disease in
children. For Omicron, 0.018% of cases aged 0-4 years old and 0.013% of
unvaccinated cases aged 5-11 years old had illness requiring oxygen
supplementation or ICU care. There were no fully vaccinated cases aged
5-11 years old with severe illness.
[5] This includes Short-Term Visitors (STVs) and Work Permit Holders
(WPH) such as Migrant Domestic Workers (MDWs) and existing CMP WPHs
holding issued work permits who will no longer need to serve their SHN
at the Onboard centres. Non-Malaysian WPHs holding an In-Principle
Approval (IPA) in the Construction, Marine Shipyard and Process (CMP)
sectors will still be required to meet the Ministry of Manpower(MOM)’s
entry requirements which include obtaining entry approvals from MOM,
pending further review and until MOM announces any changes. Please refer
to MOM website for details.
[6] To illustrate, for 2022, non-fully vaccinated children born in or
after 2010 may enter Singapore using the protocols for fully vaccinated
travellers.
[7] Non-fully vaccinated LTPHs aged 13 – 17 years may enter Singapore
without needing to apply for entry approval, subject to a 7-day SHN at
their declared place of accommodation and exit-SHN PCR test. They should
also complete the full vaccination regime after arriving in Singapore.
[8] There are currently no Restricted Category countries/regions.
Travellers with travel history to Restricted Category countries/regions
in the last 7 days will be required to take pre-departure and
on-arrival PCR tests. They will have to serve their 7-day SHN in a
dedicated facility and be required to test negative on a PCR test before
exiting their SHN.
[9] This includes those who have been medically exempted from COVID-19
vaccination, and children aged 12 years and below (based on year of
birth).
[10] Patients may tap on regular healthcare financing arrangements to
help pay for these bills – for SC/PRs, this includes Government
subsidies and MediShield Life/Integrated Shield Plan (MSHL/IP) coverage.
For LTPHs, this refers to any usual financing arrangements they may
have, such as private insurance.
[11] The paediatric VC at Yusof Ishak Secondary School (VC@YISS) will
cease operations on 1 April 2022. The 12 paediatric VCs are located at
Clementi CC, Former Hong Kah Secondary School, Hougang CC, Jalan Besar
CC, Marine Parade CC, Nee Soon CC, Our Tampines Hub, Pasir Ris Elias CC,
Woodlands Galaxy CC, Senja-Cashew CC, The Serangoon CC and Toa Payoh
West CC.
[12] Vulnerable persons may receive a fourth dose as recommended by
their doctors. Vulnerable persons are individuals who are at increased
risk of severe disease due to significant medical risk factors. These
include persons with chronic diseases of the heart, lungs, kidneys,
liver and other organ systems.
