Cessation of Extended Operating Hours of Selected Phpcs and Polyclinics
From 11 March 2022



CESSATION OF EXTENDED OPERATING HOURS OF SELECTED PHPCS AND POLYCLINICS FROM 11 MARCH 2022


Published Date: 10 Mar 2022

     From 11 March 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will cease the
extended operating hours of selected Public Health Preparedness Clinics
(PHPCs) and polyclinics. We thank our primary care providers for
stepping up to support the national effort to cope with the clinical
demand from the Omicron surge.
2.  To help spread out peak patient load at clinics and polyclinics,
MOH had extended the operating hours of selected PHPCs and polyclinics
from 25 February 2022 to 10 March 2022 (inclusive). As the Omicron
transmission wave is showing signs of subsiding, these clinics will
revert to their regular operating hours from 11 March. This will give
them a much needed respite from the long operating hours.
3.  More than 655 PHPCs, of which 15 are 24-hour clinics, will still be
open at various times on weekday nights and over weekends.Members of the
public should first call the clinics to confirm the availability and
timing of services, particularly for COVID-19 testing and vaccinations,
and make appointments as needed before heading to the clinics.The public
may access the latest list of PHPCs and polyclinics, and their operating
hours, at https://flu.gowhere.gov.sg/.
SELF-RECOVERY UNDER PROTOCOL 2
4.  Individuals who have tested positive on a self-administered Antigen
Rapid Test (ART) and have mild or no symptoms should self-isolate for at
least 72 hours. If necessary, they can book an appointment at any
Combined Test Centre (CTC) or Quick Test Centre (QTC) to do a supervised
self-administered ART. If they are feeling unwell or experiencing
symptoms such as persistent fever or cough, they can visit any PHPC via
private transport for medical attention.
5.  Since 26 February 2022, individuals who test ART positive at the
CTCs on weekends can request for a consultation with a telemedicine
doctor. The telemedicine doctors will be able to provide face-to-face
video consultations in their place of accommodation, and prescribe and
deliver medications if need be. The testing and consultations will be
funded by the Government until 20 March 2022. The booking of Acute
Respiratory Infection (ARI) testing and telemedicine consultation
appointments on weekends at the CTCs can be made
at go.gov.sg/ari-weekend-testing.
DO NOT RUSH TO EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT IF IT IS NOT AN EMERGENCY
6.  We appeal to individuals not to rush to a hospital emergency
department (ED) unless they are experiencing an emergency. Patients who
walk into EDs with non-emergency conditions, including children, may be
diverted to other urgent care clinics or primary care clinics for
further assessment, so as to prioritise ED resources for patients who
need urgent medical care.
7.  We seek everyone’s continued effort and cooperation to do our part
to preserve healthcare resources for those who need them most.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
10 MARCH 2022


