Walk-in Available for Those Eligible for Second Booster Dose



WALK-IN AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ELIGIBLE FOR SECOND BOOSTER DOSE


Published Date: 06 Apr 2022

      From 8 April 2022, eligible individuals aged 80 years and above
may walk in to any Vaccination Centre (VC), or the more than 200
participating Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs), or
participating Polyclinics to receive their second booster dose. An SMS
with a personalised booking link will also be sent to their registered
mobile number should they prefer to book an appointment online. Walk-ins
to VCs are available any day of the week before 7.00pm. The list of VCs,
participating PHPCs and participating Polyclinics can be found
at www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations.



2.   On 24 March 2022, the Multi-Ministry Taskforce accepted the
recommendation by the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V)
for all persons aged 80 years and above, persons living in aged care
facilities, and medically vulnerable persons to receive a second booster
dose from about five months after receiving their first booster dose.



3.   Persons living in aged care facilities such as nursing homes tend
to have comorbidities and should receive a second booster dose even if
they have not reached 80 years of age. For this group, the second
booster dose will be organised through the respective aged care
facilities and rolled out progressively.



4.   Other persons aged 12 years[1] and above who are medically
vulnerable and at increased risk of severe disease due to significant
medical risk factors, will need to bring along areferral memo from their
treating doctors to any VC, participating PHPC or participating
Polyclinic to receive their second booster dose. These include persons
with chronic diseases of the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver and other
organ systems.



5.   As recommended previously by the EC19V, immunocompromised persons
are recommended to receive three doses as part of their primary enhanced
series and to receive the first booster dose (i.e. fourth dose) around
five months after the third dose of their enhanced primary series. There
is no recommendation for a second booster dose for this group currently.



6.   For persons eligible to receive a second booster dose, the
recommendation will not result in a change in their vaccination status
for Vaccination-Differentiated Safe Management Measures if they choose
not to receive the second booster dose. Nevertheless, they are strongly
encouraged to go for the second booster to protect themselves.



7.   There are currently no recommendations for healthy persons in
younger age groups to receive a second booster dose, as they have better
immune responses to vaccination and are at a lower risk of severe
disease.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

6 APRIL 2022



------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Individuals aged 12-17 are only offered the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine.
