Public Consultation On Proposed Amendments to the Healthcare Services
Act



PUBLIC CONSULTATION ON PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE HEALTHCARE SERVICES ACT


Published Date: 12 Oct 2022

         The Ministry of Health (MOH) is inviting views and feedback on
the proposed amendments to the Healthcare Services Act (HCSA) to
strengthen safeguards for patient safety and welfare. The HCSA
amendments are targeted for implementation in June 2023.
2.       HCSA was enacted in 2020 to replace the Private Hospitals and
Medical Clinics Act (PHMCA) to better safeguard patient safety and
wellbeing in the changing healthcare environment, while enabling the
development of new and innovative healthcare services. The Act is being
implemented progressively in three phases, which started in January 2022
and will be completed in end-2023 when the PHMCA will be repealed [1].

3.   Over the past two years, we have engaged extensively
with various stakeholders and noted several areas of enhancements for
the regulatory framework. Under the proposed amendments, patients will
benefit from the delivery of healthcare services by licensees under a
robust regulatory regime, and from greater clarity and transparency in
healthcare services advertising and modes of service delivery.

4.  MOH proposes the following enhancements to HCSA, which
will enable patients to benefit from a robust regulatory regime
governing healthcare services delivered through different modes, and to
have greater clarity and transparency in healthcare services
advertising.

1)  Advertising of healthcare services not licensed under HCSA

·  Non-HCSA licensees cannot claim to treat medical conditions or
diseases when advertising healthcare services.

·  Non-registered healthcare professionals who use the title of
“Dr” in their advertisement of healthcare services must make clear to
the public what their qualifications and credentials are, so that the
public are not misled that the “Dr” is one associated with a general
medical practice (e.g. with a MBBS Degree).

2)  Use of specialty names in business names

·  HCSA licensees are not allowed to use terms associated with
specialties in their business names if there is no such specialist
employed by them. e.g. a clinic cannot be called a “Neurology Clinic” if
there is no neurologist working in the clinic.

3)  Regulation of different modes of healthcare service delivery

·  Different modes of service delivery will be introduced for each
healthcare service (as appropriate to the service) so that the public is
aware of the modes of service delivery they can access. e.g. a medical
clinic can choose “Permanent Premises” for its clinic service delivered
at its brick and mortar physical premises, “Temporary Premises” for
providing home visits or community site screenings, and “Remote” for
teleconsultations, if it wishes to provide those modes of services.

4)  Safeguarding the provision of healthcare services by introducing
an approval regime for the delivery of specified services (e.g. imaging
modalities under the Radiological Service) and the appointment of
clinical governance officers.

5)  Refining the scope of employee background screening according to
the degree of risk to patients’ safety and welfare.

6)  Allowing MOH to take immediate action to address urgent patient
safety issues by removing the 14-day notice prior to modification of
licence conditions for groups of licensees in such special
circumstances, e.g. requiring licensees to implement screening
requirements for patients and caregivers to mitigate the spread of
COVID-19.

5.  In particular, MOH is seeking views from a) the general
public, b) licensees who have already come onboard HCSA in Phase 1, and
c) healthcare providers who may take up HCSA licences in the future. The
feedback gathered from the public consultation will better inform the
implementation of HCSA in subsequent phases.

6.  For licensees who are coming onboard HCSA in Phase 2,
details on specific HCSA requirements will be provided separately at the
respective service regulation consultations in the next few months.

7.  Everyone has a part to play to improve and safeguard
patient safety and welfare. The amendments are targeted for
implementation in June 2023.  From 12 October to 11 November 2022,
members of the public are invited to visit www.hsca.sg to provide their
feedback on the proposed changes to HCSA.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
12 OCTOBER 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] HCSA has been implemented on 3 January 2022 for clinical support
services such as clinical laboratory and blood banking, emergency
ambulance and medical transport services, General Regulations and
Advertisement Regulations. In Phase 2 of implementation, hospitals,
ambulatory care services and some specialised services like assisted
reproduction will transit to HCSA. Phase 3 will see the implementation
of HCSA for long-term care services and other specialised and new
services.
