Tender Launch of Site At Parry Avenue for Private Assisted Living
Development



TENDER LAUNCH OF SITE AT PARRY AVENUE FOR PRIVATE ASSISTED LIVING DEVELOPMENT


Published Date: 29 Sep 2022

In collaboration with the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Urban
Redevelopment Authority (URA) has launched a site at Parry Avenue for
sale by public tender for a private assisted living development. The
pilot development will expand the range of housing-cum-care options to
better cater to seniors’ diverse lifestyles, preferences, and housing
needs.
PILOT PRIVATE ASSISTED LIVING DEVELOPMENT
2. The Government has introduced public assisted living developments
(i.e. Community Care Apartments) to better support seniors to live
independently within the community. These HDB developments integrate
senior-friendly housing with care services which can be scaled according
to seniors’ changing care needs. The aim is to offer seniors a living
environment that enables independence and creates deliberate
opportunities for social bonding. The first public assisted living flats
were launched in Bukit Batok in Feb 2021.
3. The Government is now releasing this site at Parry Avenue for a
private assisted living development. Interested tenderers are invited to
submit proposals of innovative assisted living models that can provide a
range of services (e.g. active ageing activities, housekeeping, regular
care assessments) that support seniors’ changing needs.
SITE ATTRIBUTES
4. The land parcel is located within Rosyth Estate. The site offers a
conducive environment for seniors to live independently within an
established residential neighbourhood. The development will include a
neighbourhood park and is located near dining and shopping amenities,
such as Serangoon North Neighbourhood Centre and Heartland Mall.
5. Details of the land parcel can be found in AnnexA. Information on the
vision and key service elements for the development can be found in
AnnexB, and the location plan is in AnnexC.
DETAILS OF TENDER
6. A Concept & Price Revenue tender will be adopted to evaluate the
tender submissions, to ensure that the selected concept proposal is
aligned with the vision for the private assisted living development.
7. Under this system, tenderers are required to submit their concept
proposals and tender prices separately. The concept proposals will first
be evaluated against a set of criteria specified in the tender, which
includes suitability and innovativeness of the proposed model of care,
as well as quality of the proposed care programmes and services. Only
concept proposals that are shortlisted will proceed to the second stage
of evaluation, which will be based on price only. The site will then be
awarded to the tenderer with the highest bid price among the shortlisted
concept proposals.
8. The tender will close at 12 noon on 21 March 2023.
9. More details of the site are available on the URA website at
https://www.ura.gov.sg/sitesfortender. eDeveloper’s Packets containing
details and conditions of tender of the land parcel are available for
sale at https://digitalservice.ura.gov.sg/one-stop-developer-portal.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
URBAN REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
29 SEPTEMBER 2022

