White Paper On Healthier Sg



WHITE PAPER ON HEALTHIER SG


Published Date: 21 Sep 2022

        Healthier SG is a multi-year strategy to transform the way we
deliver healthcare, by shifting our emphasis from reactively caring for
those who are already sick, to proactively preventing individuals from
falling ill. It aims to empower individuals to become healthier and
improve their quality of life through preventive care and strong
patient-doctor relationships, supported by the community and the three
healthcare clusters. The White Paper on Healthier SG has been submitted
to Parliament on 21 September and will be debated in Parliament in
October 2022.
2.     Since March 2022, the Ministry of Health (MOH) has consulted more
than 6,000 residents and engaged stakeholders such as private General
Practitioners (GP) employers and community partners to design the key
features of Healthier SG. We are encouraged by the broad support
received for the Healthier SG strategy.

KEY FEATURES OF HEALTHIER SG

3.  Healthier SG comprises five key features:

i)  Mobilise our network of family doctors to deliver preventive
care for residents;
ii)  Develop health plans that include lifestyle adjustments, regular
health screening and appropriate vaccinations;
iii)  Activate community partners to support residents in leading
healthier lifestyles;
iv)  Launch a national enrolment programme for residents to commit to
seeing one family doctor and adopt a health plan; and
v)  Set up necessary enablers such as IT, manpower development plan
and financing policy to make Healthier SG work.

RESIDENTS

4.   Under Healthier SG, residents will be encouraged to
choose and enrol with a family doctor, who will serve as a first
point-of-contact to holistically manage their health. We will allow some
flexibility for residents to change their family doctor to take into
account changes in their life circumstances. Enrolment will open to
residents aged 60 years and above in the second half of 2023, followed
by those in the 40-59 age group in the next two years.

5.  Upon successful enrolment, residents can schedule a
face-to-face onboarding health consultation, which will be fully paid
for by the Government. Once enrolled, residents will develop a health
plan with their doctor and discuss how to improve their health, such as
by making lifestyle adjustments, having regular check-ins on their
health, and taking up the recommended health screenings and
vaccinations.

6.  Residents will also enjoy the following benefits at the
clinic they enrol with under Healthier SG:

·  Fully subsidised nationally recommended screenings and
vaccinations for Singapore Citizens;
·  No need for cash co-payment when using MediSave for chronic
care management;
·  Access to a new Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS) subsidy
tier, under which prices for a whitelist of common chronic disease
management drugs at their enrolled private family doctor clinic will be
comparable with those at polyclinics; and
·  Rewards for residents for enrolling and completing their first
consultation with their enrolled family doctor and for leading active
and healthy lifestyles, under the Health Promotion Board’s health points
system.

FAMILY DOCTORS

7.  Primary care, delivered by family doctors in our Primary
Care Networks GP clinics (PCNs) and Polyclinics, is the critical first
touchpoint in a patient’s care journey. Individuals who visit a regular
family doctor are generally healthier and have fewer visits to the
emergency departments and hospitals. Yet only three in five Singaporeans
have a regular family doctor. Under Healthier SG, MOH will mobilise its
network of family doctors to provide holistic care, focused on
preventive and improved chronic care.

8.   We will mobilise our network of family doctors to
provide holistic care, focused on preventive and improved chronic care,
and ensure a consistent and evidence-based level of care delivery across
the diverse primary care landscape. We have worked with primary care
leaders to develop 12 care protocols to guide the approach to screening
and vaccination and managing key chronic conditions. These protocols
will ensure a smooth and integrated approach across providers. More
protocols will be co-developed over time.

9.  We will pay family doctors in private practice an annual
service fee to care for and manage each enrolled resident. The fee will
be tiered based on the health risk profile of each enrolled resident,
scope of required care and the progress made in terms of preventive care
or chronic disease management.

10.  We will also provide a one-off grant to Healthier SG family
doctors for IT enablement to better serve their residents.

COMMUNITY PARTNERS

11.  Improving our health goes beyond a doctor’s visit. Family
doctors will be able to make social prescriptions, which are referrals
to community partners, to support residents in leading healthier lives.

12.  Healthier SG will make it easier for residents to connect
to the wide range of activities provided by our community partners such
as the Health Promotion Board (HPB), Agency for Integrated Care (AIC),
People’s Association (PA) and Sport Singapore (SportSG). These can
include activities like aerobics, brisk walking, ball games, community
gardening and cooking classes.

13.  We will also provide additional support for seniors through
our Eldercare Centres (EC). We will expand the number of centres from
the current 119 to 220 by 2025; and provide more services, such as
connecting seniors with community programmes and helping them with
monitoring vital signs.

REGIONAL HEALTH MANAGERS

14.   To bring all these features together, our healthcare
clusters will step up as regional health managers to actively coordinate
and oversee these partnerships and activities for residents. Each
healthcare cluster will care for approximately 1.5 million residents and
will work with family doctors and other partners in the region to reach
out to as many residents as possible. They will coordinate the efforts
of various partners, guide the development of referral pathways, review
the needs and health outcomes of residents and encourage stronger
relationships across partners so as to serve residents better.

STRENGTHENING SYSTEM ENABLERS

15.   We will enhance our healthcare IT infrastructure to
improve data submission and sharing of clinical information to make it
more convenient for both patients and doctors. We will also bolster our
data governance frameworks and cybersecurity capabilities. This will
enable clusters, family doctors and partners to work more closely
together to serve residents better.

16.  Residents participating in Healthier SG will have a
digitally enabled health plan on HealthHub, where they can access the
key points of their discussions with their family doctor and track their
health outcomes. Healthy 365 will also be enhanced to better track
physical activities and diets, as well as support access to community
activities. It will be made inter-operable with many other digital
health apps, which can encourage and nudge residents to adopt healthier
lifestyles.

NEXT STEPS

17.  Healthier SG will be a long-term, multi-year effort, as it
takes time, probably eight to 10 years, to see the initial results of a
healthier population. We are investing in and changing the healthcare
system, to support individuals to chart their own journey towards better
health.

18. The White Paper on Healthier SG can be accessed at
https://www.healthiersg.gov.sg/
