Paediatric Vaccination At Selected Polyclinics and Public Health
Preparedness Clinics



PAEDIATRIC VACCINATION AT SELECTED POLYCLINICS AND PUBLIC HEALTH PREPAREDNESS CLINICS


Published Date: 11 May 2022

          With the majority of the 5 to 11-year-olds having completed
their primary series vaccinations, the last two paediatric Vaccination
Centres (VCs), Hougang Community Club and Senja-Cashew Community Club,
will cease operations on 30 June 2022. The two VCs will administer the
last paediatric Dose 1 and last paediatric Dose 2 on 9 June 2022 and 30
June 2022 respectively. To ensure COVID-19 vaccination remains
accessible to this age group, three polyclinics and selected Public
Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs) will come onboard to continue
providing paediatric vaccine doses.



2.  The three polyclinics, Pioneer Polyclinic, Punggol Polyclinic
and Woodlands Polyclinic, will commence provision on 18 May 2022, while
the selected PHPCs will progressively commence provision from 25 May
2022. The list of polyclinics and PHPCs offering paediatric vaccines can
be found at vaccine.gov.sg/locations



3.  As of 10 May 2022, about 81% of children aged 5 to 11 have
either booked an appointment for or received their first dose, while
about 69% have received their second dose. Among the students in our
primary schools, more than 86% have received at least their first dose,
while about 77% have received both doses. In addition, about 35,600
children born in 2016 and 2017 have registered on Ministry of Health
(MOH)’s National Appointment System. About 32,700 have received at least
their first dose, while about 26,700 have received their second dose.



4.  Parents/guardians who wish to vaccinate their child/ward at
the selected polyclinics and PHPCs will have to first register their
child/ward at child.vaccine.gov.sg. An SMS with a personalised booking
link will be sent to the registered mobile number of the parent/guardian
within three to five working days to book a vaccination appointment. To
better manage overall patient load and reduce waiting time, the
polyclinics and PHPCs offering paediatric vaccination will only accept
appointments made via the National Appointment System for now.



5.  All children aged 5 to 11 must be accompanied by a
parent/guardian on the day of the vaccination. Parents/guardians should
bring along the child’s Student Identification, or other forms of
identification (e.g. Birth Certificate/Passport/SingPass) for
verification. Parents/guardians will also be required to bring a signed
hard or soft copy of the parental consent form, which can be downloaded
at https://go.gov.sg/parcf.



6.  Vaccinations remain a critical part of our strategy in
ensuring our children are well protected against infection and severe
illness should they be infected with COVID-19. We encourage
parents/guardians to get their child/ward vaccinated.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION

EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

11 MAY 2022
