Transitional Support for Cancer Patients



TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT FOR CANCER PATIENTS


Published Date: 02 Sep 2022

1.     The Ministry of Health (MOH) will provide additional transitional
support for cancer patients who have started treatment before 1
September 2022 and will be affected by the changes related to the
financing for cancer drug treatments.

HEALTHCARE FINANCING FOR CANCER DRUG TREATMENTS



2.     Cancer drug spending grew 20% per year from 2016 to 2019. This is
not sustainable. To address this, MOH announced changes in August 2021
to the MediShield Life, MediSave and Integrated Shield Plan (IP)
coverage, and established a Cancer Drug List (CDL). From 1 September
2022, only treatments that are listed on the CDL are covered under
MediShield Life and MediSave. IP coverage will also be adjusted from 1
April 2023 upon policy purchase or renewal.

3.     Concurrently, to improve affordability for use of clinically- and
cost-effective cancer drugs, MOH will extend drug subsidies through the
Medication Assistance Fund (MAF) to more Singapore Residents at our
Public Healthcare Institutions (PHIs). The changes have also taken
effect on 1 September 2022. A summary of the financing changes is
provided in the Annex.

4.     These changes strengthen MOH’s ability to negotiate better prices
for cancer drugs. Since the new policy was announced in August 2021,
procurement prices have reduced by an average of 30%, and up to 65% for
some drugs. Currently, more than 90% of Health Sciences
Authority-approved cancer treatments are already on the CDL, which will
continue to expand as we continue to engage drug companies, and new
clinical evidence emerges.

TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT

5.     Patients in public and private healthcare institutions who have
started treatments that are (i) not on the CDL or (ii) on the CDL but
not subsidised before 1 September 2022, may find themselves affected by
the policy change, as out-of-pocket expenses may go up, until such time
the drugs are included or subsidised on the CDL. We will provide
additional support for this group of patients during this transition
period so that their ongoing course of treatment is not disrupted.

6.     The provisions to support these patients are:

a) Patients with IPs that currently cover their treatments will not see
any change to their coverage from 1 September 2022, as the changes to
IPs will only kick in on their policy renewal date from 1 April 2023
onwards, and all IP insurers have also committed to provide transitional
support to IP policyholders undergoing cancer drug treatments beyond 1
April 2023. More details will be shared by the IP insurers.

b) Patients with MediShield Life only will receive additional financial
support for their current course of treatment. Generally, they will not
need to pay more cash as compared to before. Patients may approach their
respective PHIs for more details.

7.     In addition, cancer patients who are receiving private care and
need further financial assistance may request to be directly referred to
subsidised specialist care at the PHIs, where their treatment plan will
be reviewed and they can apply for additional financial support.

8.     Future patients, together with their oncologists, should consider
treatment options on the CDL, which are clinically proven and more
cost-effective, before considering alternatives.

9.     Notwithstanding, IP insurers have decided that their riders’
coverage will continue to cover treatments beyond the CDL. This will
provide greater choice for those who prefer and wish to pay for broader
coverage. More details will be shared by the IP insurers.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

2 SEPTEMBER 2022
