Public Consultation On Preliminary Recommendations to Enhance Mental
Health and Well-being



PUBLIC CONSULTATION ON PRELIMINARY RECOMMENDATIONS TO ENHANCE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING


Published Date: 30 May 2022

1.            The Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and Well-Being
will conduct a public consultation to seek views on its preliminary
recommendations to enhance the mental health and well-being of
Singaporeans. The public consultation will be held from 30 May to 7
August 2022 through two modes – an online consultation via REACH and
small group engagements with key stakeholders. The feedback gathered
will be incorporated into the development of the National Mental Health
and Well-being Strategy.



2.  We invite the public to share feedback on the Taskforce’s
preliminary recommendations via go.gov.sg/mental-health from 30 May to 7
August 2022.  In addition, over 30 small group engagements will be held
with key stakeholders including youths, parents, persons with mental
health conditions, service providers, employers and community agencies
on the preliminary recommendations. Grassroots will also engage
residents to gather feedback. These stakeholders will be contacted
directly via their respective organisations to participate in the
engagement sessions.



PRELIMINARY RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE TASKFORCE



3.  In recognition of the multi-faceted nature of mental
health and well-being, the Taskforce was set up in July 2021 to oversee
and coordinate mental health and well-being efforts, focusing on
cross-cutting issues that require interagency collaborations¹.



4.  The Taskforce has proposed 12 recommendations to address
the gaps identified across three focus areas: 1) improve accessibility,
coordination and quality of mental health services; 2) strengthen
services and support for youth mental well-being; and 3) improve
workplace well-being measures and employment support. Details of the
preliminary recommendations can be found in the public consultation
paper on REACH’s website at go.gov.sg/feedbackmentalhealth or Annex A.



FOCUS AREA 1: IMPROVE ACCESSIBILITY, COORDINATION AND QUALITY OF MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES



5.  The Ministry of Health, Agency for Integrated Care and
the Institute of Mental Health have been working with healthcare
institutions and community care providers to provide various mental
health services to support persons with mental health conditions. To
enable timely access to affordable and quality mental health services
across the health and social settings, the Taskforce seeks the public’s
feedback on four recommendations:



  i.  Implement a care model that provides a tiered
system of services (ranging from peer support, general counselling, to
more intensive psychological and psychiatric services), to cater to
individuals with varying levels of mental health needs.



  ii.  Designate a few first-stop touchpoints to
provide individuals with easy access to mental health support and
advice.



  iii.  Standardise processes and systems to improve
coordination between social and healthcare service providers.



  iv.  Ensure frontline workers, peer supporters,
mental health para-professionals are equipped with the relevant mental
health competencies, and knowledge of mental health conditions and
community support services.



FOCUS AREA 2: STRENGTHEN SERVICES AND SUPPORT FOR YOUTH MENTAL
WELL-BEING



6.  While government agencies, schools and community partners
have been building youth mental health services and promoting awareness
of mental health issues over the years, there is room to improve mental
health awareness among youths, and to provide easier access to mental
health support and services for them. To strengthen services and support
for youth, the Taskforce proposes three recommendations for the public’s
feedback.



  i.  Leverage the care model for mental health and
well-being services (see Focus Area 1 Recommendation (i)) to enhance
accessibility and increase the range of quality mental health services
for youth.



  ii.  Develop a parents’ toolbox to equip parents
with youth mental health and cyber wellness knowledge and skills.



  iii.  Promote positive and healthy use of technology
and social media.



FOCUS AREA 3: IMPROVE WORKPLACE WELL-BEING MEASURES AND EMPLOYMENT
SUPPORT



7.  All persons in recovery from mental health conditions
should have the opportunity to live with dignity in a caring and
inclusive society. Employment is an important aspect of recovery for
persons with mental health conditions as it allows them another avenue
to participate meaningfully in society. To strengthen workplace
well-being measures and improve the employability of and employment
support for persons with mental health conditions, the Taskforce
proposes five recommendations for the public’s feedback.



  i.  Improve mental well-being support systems and
work-life harmony strategies for employees in general (including persons
with mental health conditions), by partnering employers to increase
awareness on mental health resources, and enhance support networks and
assistance.



  ii.  Standardise assessment and referral frameworks
for all employment support agencies to provide customised employment
support services.



  iii.  Improve access to training for persons with
mental health conditions.



  iv.  Increase the number and variety of job
opportunities available to persons with mental health conditions.



  v.  Equip employers, Human Resource practitioners,
supervisors and colleagues with knowledge on supporting persons with
mental health conditions and creating inclusive workplaces, through
support services and resources such as helplines and consultancy
clinics.



INVITATION TO PROVIDE FEEDBACK



8.  Everyone has a part to play to improve and support mental
health and well-being within our families, workplaces, and community,
and to build an inclusive and caring society.



9.  The feedback gathered will help the Taskforce sharpen its
recommendations to inform the development of the National Mental Health
and Well-being Strategy, which will provide overarching goals and
strategies to guide and align the various agencies’ efforts.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

MINISTRY OF SOCIAL AND FAMILY DEVELOPMENT

30 MAY 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] The Taskforce comprises members from over 30 government agencies,
public and private sectors. It is coordinated by the Ministry of Health
and the Ministry of Social and Family Development, and supported by the
Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Culture, Community and Youth, the
Ministry of Manpower, and the National Council of Social Service.
