Promoting Overall Healthier Living While Targeting Specific
Sub-populations



PROMOTING OVERALL HEALTHIER LIVING WHILE TARGETING SPECIFIC SUB-POPULATIONS


Published Date: 09 Mar 2022

    To work towards a healthier Singapore, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
will take a life-course approach to drive population health. We will
redouble efforts to promote overall healthier living, while taking
targeted health measures for specific segments of society.

MAKING SINGAPORE HEALTHIER
_STRONGER FOCUS ON PREVENTIVE CARE
_2.   To address the challenges of an ageing population and improve
population health outcomes, MOH is developing a Healthier SG strategy to
outline a major reform of the healthcare sector. We will focus our
efforts upstream on keeping individuals healthy, driving preventive
health and early intervention, while continuing to provide appropriate
care to those with existing needs.

3.   The Healthier SG strategy has five core components:

-   Mobilisation of our network of family physicians;
-   Care Plans;
-   Community partnership to support better health;
-   National Healthier SG Enrolment programme; and
-   Support structures and policies.__

_ACTIVATING OUR NETWORK OF FAMILY PHYSICIANS
_4.   International and local studies have shown that those who have a
regular family physician are generally healthier, and have fewer
hospitalisation and emergency department visits. However only three in
five Singaporeans currently have a regular doctor. To support the
Healthier SG strategy, we will reorganise care delivery, starting with
transforming primary care to be an important pillar of the healthcare
system. This requires the integration of primary care providers,
especially General Practitioners (GPs), into the public healthcare
ecosystem.
5.   MOH will partner the three healthcare clusters to better support
the GPs who are operating within their region and integrating them more
closely with the overall health system, such as by enabling data sharing
and building up team-based care.
_CARE PLANS
_6.   Under the Healthier SG strategy, Singaporeans will be encouraged
to visit the same family physician clinic regularly for all their care
needs and discuss their health goals. This could include completing key
preventive care actions, addressing risk factors early and exploring
together how to achieve health goals and delay the onset of diseases.
7.   MOH will be conducting consultation with all stakeholders in the
coming months to develop a primary care package that is optimised to
encourage participation and adherence. Some proposals include exploring
how to make recommended health screenings even more affordable,
providing better coverage by Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS)
subsidies and/or MediSave at their chosen doctor, or offer insurance
premium discounts for those who diligently follow their Care Plans.
_MOBILISING COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS TO SUPPORT BETTER HEALTH_

8.  _ _We will leverage community partnerships to strengthen support for
residents. The regional health clusters will build an integrated health
and social ecosystem to better support the needs of residents who stay
within their region, by partnering agencies such as the Health Promotion
Board (HPB), Agency for Integrated Care (AIC), People’s Association
(PA), SportSG, National Parks Board and community partners to provide
programmes and services to help residents keep healthy and well in the
community.
9.   Beyond community partnerships, MOH will also explore how we could
extend such collaborations to private hospitals.
_NATIONAL HEALTHIER SG ENROLMENT PROGRAMME
_
10.   Central to Healthier SG is the plan to roll out a national primary
care enrolment programme from 2023. Each resident will be invited to
enrol with a family physician of their choice as their first line of
care, who would support them across their life-course for different
health needs and care episodes, to ensure continuity of care.
11.   The national enrolment programme will be coordinated by the three
healthcare clusters, with each cluster looking after a region of up to
1.5 million residents, and working with family physicians and other
partners in the region to engage the residents and strengthen care for
them. Family physicians may work with the polyclinic or hospital in the
management of patients with more complex needs. Upon discharge,
hospitals would refer patients to the family physician they are enrolled
with, to ensure continuity of care. There could also be shared care
between family physicians and specialists or other allied health
professionals to jointly support patients based on their care needs.
This partnership will allow the care team that is supporting the patient
to coordinate an integrated seamless care.
12.   A geographical approach will be used to enrol residents so that
each individual can get care and support near where they live.
Currently, close to nine in 10 residents visit a family physician or
hospital near their home. Nevertheless, MOH will preserve individual
choice in enrolling with a family physician, even if the doctor is
practising far away from their home and/ or operates in an area that is
coordinated by another healthcare cluster. Even after enrolment,
individuals can make changes when the need arises, for instance, when
they move to a new house.
_NECESSARY SUPPORT STRUCTURES AND POLICIES
_13.  _ _MOH will put in place structures and policies to support the
healthcare reform and shifts needed. These include further investing in
our manpower and strengthening the training focus on delivering care in
the community, reviewing our financing schemes to focus on delivering
key health outcomes and building up critical support pillars in
technology and data.
14.   Manpower. We need to build up and optimise our primary and
community care workforce further to support the shift of the centre of
gravity towards primary and community care over the next few years. We
will also further build up the competencies and skills of our healthcare
workforce.
15.   In recent years, we have placed strong emphasis on family medicine
training and education. We will explore further measures to ensure new
graduates have a more broad-based experience. Post-graduate training in
Family Medicine is also being strengthened to lay an even stronger
ground foundation in family medicine for our medical doctors over time.
16.   We will continue to invest in the skills development of nurses,
pharmacists and allied health professionals, broaden inter-disciplinary
training, and empower them to practise at the highest level of their
licences. We will also expand the role of community pharmacists and the
scope of work for allied health professionals in primary and community
care to improve care delivery and support to patients and doctors in the
community.
17.   Financing. MOH is changing the basis of how we fund our healthcare
clusters, moving from a workload-based model to a capitation model,
where clusters will get a pre-determined fee for every resident living
in the region that they are looking after to allow them greater latitude
to determine how they will support the residents. With this funding
shift, there will be a natural incentive for hospitals to try to keep
residents healthy through preventive care.
18.   IT and data. MOH will study how we can provide better data support
for family physicians, such as giving them access to patients’ medical
records and tools like clinical dashboards to better track their
patient’s conditions and health trends over time. To support this, MOH
has been developing the National Electronic Health Record (NEHR) system
to synchronise information and enable access by the patients’ care team
across settings.
19.   With more accessing shared data and handling individual records,
there is a need to ensure and facilitate secured data sharing, and for
users to take greater responsibility for data access. New legislation
will be put in place to govern this, with a Health Information Bill that
will be put in place.
_CONSULTATION AND WHITE PAPER ON HEALTHIER SG
_20._   _Healthier SG is a major national strategy and more details are
being worked out. Over the next few months, we will be consulting
different stakeholders, including Singaporeans from all walks of life,
GPs, healthcare workers and community partners, to gather their input
and views. MOH will then provide more details of Healthier SG in a White
Paper and table it for debate in Parliament. We will share more details
of the public consultation plans for Healthier SG when ready.
STRENGTHENING SUPPORT FOR THE YOUNG AND THEIR FAMILIES
21.   MOH is developing a Child and Maternal Health and Well-being
Strategy and Action Plan to provide holistic and comprehensive support
to children and their families to keep healthy and well. The Strategy
and Action Plan will address health risks and wider determinants of
health across different age segments, spanning the pre-conception phase
to adolescents aged 18 years old.
22.   The Interagency Taskforce, chaired by Mr Masagos Zulkifli,
Minister for Social and Family Development and Second Minister for
Health, was set up to oversee the development and implementation of the
five-year Strategy and Action Plan. The Taskforce has completed the
first of two phases of review and development.
23.   As the needs and support required of children and their mothers
vary across the age spectrum, we are developing the Strategy and Action
Plan over two phases to develop more targeted programmes and initiatives
for each group.

-   The first phase started last year, and focused on supporting mothers
    and their children from pre-conception up to 12 years of age.

&nbsp;
-   The second phase, which will commence this year, will focus on
    supporting adolescents up to 18 years of age and families including
    fathers and grandparents.

24.   Over the past year, the Taskforce has conducted focus group
discussions with parents, parents-to-be and caregivers. We have also
conducted some 20 site visits and engagement sessions from February to
August 2021 with frontline officers from across the health, social and
education domains to better understand what matters most to children and
their families.
25.   The Taskforce has put up a few recommendations for the first phase
of the Action Plan for implementation from this year, focusing on three
key aspects, namely (i) a healthy mother and a healthy child, (ii) a
happy mother and a happy child, and (iii) a well-supported mother and an
able child.

_MORE SERVICE DELIVERY AS A MOTHER-CHILD DYAD AT POLYCLINICS_

26.   Since 2019, we have started two pilot programmes to offer the
mother-child dyad service model in Punggol Polyclinic and Yishun
Polyclinic. These pilots offer integrated healthcare services for both
mothers and children when they visit the polyclinics as a dyad, where
postnatal depression screening and breastfeeding support are provided to
the mothers when they bring their child for vaccination and childhood
developmental screening at the polyclinics. Since the pilots started,
more than 10,000 children and mothers have benefitted from the
programmes.
27.   To support the dyad of a healthy mother and a healthy child, MOH
will scale up the pilot to deliver integrated services through a
mother-child dyad service model in 12 more polyclinics across Singapore
over the next three years. This will enable more mothers and children to
benefit from the services delivered.

_FAMILY NEXUS
_
28.  _ _Besides integrating services for the mother and child, we also
need to enhance integration of services across the health and social
domains for more holistic support for children and their families. In
this regard, we will be piloting an integrated family support programme
called “Family Nexus”, at four sites in Choa Chu Kang, Punggol,
Sembawang and Tampines in 2022.
29.   Family Nexus will bring together selected health and social
services under one roof, allowing families to easily access varied
services at a one-stop community node near them. This could be at or
near a polyclinic, a GP clinic, or social service agency office.
Families can also navigate and sign up for other relevant programmes
organised by community partners in the region, including breastfeeding
and lactation support services, Body Mass Index and Growth Assessment
checks for young children, marriage prep courses, parenting or
grandparent programmes, and caregivers’ training.

_MORE ANTENATAL AND POSTNATAL MENTAL WELLNESS SUPPORT
_30.   We will also scale up support for the mental well-being of women
during and after their pregnancy. The local study, Growing Up in
Singapore Towards Healthy Outcomes (GUSTO), found that maternal mental
well-being during pregnancy could affect the brain development of the
foetus, giving rise to vulnerability, such as mood or anxiety disorders
later on in life. The study also found that positive maternal mental
health and well-being play an important role in the child’s development
after birth. In Singapore, about 7.2% of pregnant women are found to
have high score of depressive symptoms during pregnancy. The proportion
increases to 1 in 10 women during the first three months postpartum.
31.   KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital and National University
Hospital will enhance their mental well-being support for pregnant women
and mothers by scaling up accessibility to antenatal and post-natal
mental health screening. We will also enhance early intervention and
support for more women who are screened to be at risk of depressive
symptoms. Case management support and consultation with a psychologist
or case manager will be provided to journey with them during their
pregnancy as well as the first few years of childbirth (should there be
an assessed need to continue after childbirth).

_MORE PRACTICAL GUIDES AND RESOURCES ON CALIBRATING SCREEN TIME
_32.  _ _We will enhance support to parents and caregivers, to help them
to inculcate healthy lifestyle habits in their children from young. In
particular, we will develop practical guides and resources for parents
to calibrate their children’s exposure to screen time, and forge healthy
screen time habits. This is important as the GUSTO study found that
infant screen time could have a negative association with later
cognition if the child gets exposed to screen viewing too early.
Excessive screen time could also have a negative impact on a child’s
health and well-being.
_PARENT HUB
_33.  _ _Besides examining evidence-based findings to put in place
interventions and enhancing service integration, the Taskforce also
reviewed the approaches on how we engage our stakeholders and the
public, so as to keep resources, messages and support to them relevant.
Last year, HPB launched Parent Hub which serves as a one-stop
evidence-based resource portal for parents to obtain information to
enhance their children’s health and well-being. Parent Hub consolidates
reliable information in one place and allows parents to seek advice and
help easily. More resources to support parents to keep themselves and
their children healthy will be provided in the coming months.
TARGETED MEASURES TO SUPPORT SENIORS FOR SUCCESSFUL AGEING
_SENIORS__:_ _REFRESH OF THE ACTION PLAN FOR SUCCESSFUL AGEING
_34.  _ _The Ministerial Committee of Ageing (MCA) is refreshing the
Action Plan for Successful Ageing, to ensure that it continues to meet
the needs of the seniors of today and tomorrow. The Refresh of the
Action Plan, which is targeted to be launched in end 2022, will focus on
the three “C”s of Care, Contribution and Connectedness:
-   Care: Empower seniors to take charge of their physical and mental
well-being through preventive health, active ageing programmes and care
services to stay healthy and pursue their aspirations
-   Contribution: Enable seniors to continue to contribute their
knowledge and expertise and remain resilient, through an enhanced
learning, volunteerism and employment landscape
-   Connectedness: Support seniors to age-in-place within an inclusive
built environment, while staying connected to their loved ones and
society through digital platforms and support networks that embody the
"kampung spirit".
35.   As part of the SGTogether movement, we have embarked on a series
of engagements with Singaporeans from all walks of life to co-create the
Refresh of the Action Plan. These include focus group discussions on a
wide variety of topics such as retirement adequacy, digital
participation for seniors, as well as active ageing programmes and
surveys to gauge public sentiments, and the Citizens’ Panel on
Contribution, as a call-to-action for Singaporeans to partner the
Government in co-creating the Refresh of the Action Plan. More than
5,000 Singaporeans attended around 35 engagement sessions to discuss and
shape transformation in how we can enable seniors to age well in the
community.
_HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAMME, “LIVE WELL, AGE WELL”
_36.  _ _‘Live Well, Age Well’ is a new health and wellness programme
that is jointly developed and implemented by HPB and PA, which aims to
empower seniors to improve and maintain their health through a holistic
programme that comprises six domains, spanning physical, mental and
social wellness:
-   Live Active: To engage seniors in regular exercises, focusing on
strength, balance and flexibility to support seniors in meeting their
recommended physical activity levels.
-   Live Enriched: To equip seniors with knowledge and skills to improve
and maintain their physical, mental and functional health.
-   Live Nourished: To encourage seniors to adopt a healthy and balanced
diet, with a focus on meeting recommended intake of important nutrients
including protein and calcium.
-   Live Assured: To encourage seniors to go for regular health
screening and follow-up.
-   Live Happy: To educate seniors on the importance of mental and
social well-being and encourage active participation to stay socially
connected.
-   Live Prepared: To equip seniors with essential knowledge and skills
to stay independent and fulfilled post-retirement.

37.   The programme will be gradually rolled out nationwide in a
‘hub-and-spoke’ model from May 2022, where the suite of programming from
all six domains will be offered at designated Community Centres, and
complemented by Residents’ Corners, Eldercare Centres and faith-based
organisations, based on the profile of residents and clients.
_EXPANSION OF PRIVATE ASSISTED DEVELOPMENTS
_38.  _ _Last year, we launched the Community Care Apartments at Bukit
Batok with senior-friendly features and care services that can be scaled
to individual care needs. Given that the flats were over-subscribed with
more than four seniors applying for each flat, MOH, the Ministry of
National Development and Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) have been
jointly looking to expand the suite of such housing-cum-care models to
private developments.
39.   MOH and URA will launch a site at Parry Avenue for sale by public
tender in the coming months. Tenderers will be invited to propose
innovative assisted living models that can support seniors with a
continuum of care and support their physical and mental wellbeing. This
launch will also catalyse the input and leverage the strengths of
private stakeholders in the assisted living ecosystem, and further
support our seniors’ aspirations to age-in-place.
INTRODUCE TARGETED HEALTH MEASURES FOR OTHER SPECIFIC SUB-POPULATIONS
_WOMEN__: WOMEN’S HEALTH EVENT_

40.   The Women’s Health Committee, chaired by Ms Rahayu Mahzam,
Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of Health, is made up of
representatives from various government agencies, and several
non-governmental organisations with a shared interest in promoting
women’s health in Singapore. Amongst the Committee’s priorities in
improving health outcomes for women are efforts to inculcate a healthy
lifestyle from young, as well as women-specific health matters such as
bone health and cancer screening. Please refer to the Annex for the
composition of the Women’s Health Committee.
41.   The Committee is planning a women’s health event in 2022,
consisting of a series of events and activities where its member
agencies and organisations can collectively raise greater awareness of
women’s health matters and women-specific health issues to maximise
outreach to different segments of the female population. More details of
the women’s health event will be shared in the later part of 2022.

REDOUBLING EFFORTS TO PROMOTE HEALTHIER LIFESTYLES

_INTRODUCING MEASURES TO CURB SODIUM CONSUMPTION
_42._   _High sodium intake is associated with increased risk of
hypertension, which is in turn associated with higher risks of
cardiovascular complications such as stroke and heart attack. More than
one in three Singapore residents aged 18 to 74 years had hypertension
between 2019 and 2020. Singapore residents were also consuming 3,600mg
of sodium per day (or more than 1.5 teaspoons of salt) on average in
2018. This is almost double that of the World Health Organization’s
(WHO) recommended limit of less than 2,000mg of sodium per day.
43.   HPB will introduce a series of measures from 2022, aimed at
reducing our sodium consumption.
a.   Sodium substitution: The food service sector is a major contributor
to our sodium intake and the impact is set to grow as more Singaporeans
eat out. HPB will increase support through the Healthier Ingredient
Development Scheme (HIDS), working with salt suppliers and the food
service sector to encourage the substitution of regular salt used in
cooking with lower-sodium alternatives such as lower-sodium salt, which
contains 30% less sodium at the same quantity.
b.   Increase range and variety of lower-sodium alternatives: HPB will
ramp up existing efforts under the HIDS to spur industry reformulation
of lower-sodium salt, sauces and seasonings to further increase the
range and variety of healthier choices for Singaporeans. HPB will also
invest in upstream prototyping for sauces and seasonings using
lower-sodium salt, focusing on products commonly used by the food
service sector to spur business innovation.
c.   Public Education: On top of existing public education efforts, HPB
will also embark on a nationwide campaign to encourage Singaporeans to
take steps to reduce their sodium intake. The campaign will educate on
the harms of consuming too much salt, build awareness of salt
substitutes and highlight how consumers can replace salt in their foods
while retaining flavour.

STEPPING UP EFFORTS TO STRENGTHEN SUPPORT FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND
WELL-BEING
44.   The Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and Well-being was set
up in July 2021 to oversee and coordinate mental health efforts,
focusing on cross-cutting issues that require interagency
collaborations. The Taskforce, comprising members from over 30
government agencies, public and private sectors, has reviewed the
current landscape to uncover gaps. Four focus areas have been
identified:

-   Strengthen services and family support for parents and youths;
-   Provide and improve access to mental health care by integrating
    health and social services;
-   Provide employment support for recovered persons with mental health
    conditions; and
-   Improve mental health literacy among the citizens and create an
    inclusive society for greater acceptance of persons with mental
    health conditions.

The Taskforce is refining the recommendations, and plans to hold a
public consultation in the coming months.

_ENHANCEMENTS TO MENTAL HEALTH OUTREACH AND SUPPORT_

45.   MOH will continue to expand current mental health services in the
community and our public hospitals. Together with AIC, MOH has piloted
community mental health teams to provide a range of mental health
support services for youths aged 12 to 25 years who are at risk of, or
suspected to have, mental health conditions. To date, four youth
outreach teams and two youth integrated teams have been set up under
social service agencies including Care Corner Singapore, Fei Yue
Community Services, Limitless, SHINE Children and Youth Services,
Singapore Association for Mental Health, and TOUCH Community Services.

-   Community outreach teams conduct outreach to raise awareness of
    mental health issues, and provide basic emotional support and
    screening to facilitate early identification and referrals of youth
    at risk of mental health conditions for further assessment and
    intervention if necessary.

&nbsp;
-   Youth integrated teams, which are led by allied health
    professionals, provide holistic support including outreach,
    assessment and psycho-social therapeutic interventions for youth
    with mental health needs.

46.   As of December 2021, the youth community outreach teams have
reached out to over 21,000 youths and provided support to more than
1,600 youths, while the youth integrated teams have provided
interventions to over 500 youths.
47.   To provide better support for persons experiencing mental health
crises, the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) has piloted the Crisis
Response Team (CRT) to respond to calls from the Singapore Police Force
on cases of suicide attempts. This multi-disciplinary team conducts
on-site assessment of suicidal individuals and connects them with
appropriate intervention and follow-up management after the immediate
crisis is resolved. This pilot will run for three years from 2020 to
2023.
48.   The CRT started in March 2021 with the Bedok Division, and
subsequently expanded to include the Jurong Division. It has since been
rolled out island-wide from 6 December 2021. The CRT picked up an
average of 32 calls per month from March 2021 to October 2021. Calls are
also picked up within 46 seconds on average.
_EXPANDED PROVISION AND INCREASED ACCESS TO MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
_49.  _ _To improve access to addictions services, the National
Addictions Management Service (NAMS), currently based in IMH, will be
extended to other hospitals including Changi General Hospital (CGH) and
National University Hospital (NUH). Each site will have
multidisciplinary teams providing inpatient and outpatient services for
patients with addictions issues. CGH and NUH will also be able to treat
addictions patients with medical co-morbidities or complications and
will co-manage them with other clinical specialties. Services are also
being reviewed to address changing patient needs and emergent addiction
trends, such as internet and gaming addictions.
50.   To future-proof more dedicated hospital capacity for psychiatric
services beyond IMH, the National University Health System will set up
psychiatric services at the redeveloped Alexandra Hospital, in addition
to its suite of General Hospital services. This will include inpatient
beds for acute and sub-acute psychiatric care and rehabilitation, as
well as services on Medical Psychiatry, Child and Adolescent Psychiatry,
and Psychogeriatrics to service the residents in the west of Singapore.
These services will complement those that are currently being offered at
IMH.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH
9 MARCH 2022
