Strengthening Our Readiness to Live With the Omicron Variant



STRENGTHENING OUR READINESS TO LIVE WITH THE OMICRON VARIANT


Published Date: 05 Jan 2022

        Over the past week, we have seen a rise in the total number of
confirmed Omicron cases. Given the higher transmissibility of the
Omicron variant, we are likely to experience an infection wave that is
greater than that of Delta. Although there may be proportionately fewer
severe cases or deaths due to Omicron’s lower severity and continued
protection from our vaccination and booster efforts, when multiplied
over a much larger number of cases, it could still result in a
significant number of individuals requiring intensive care unit (ICU)
care, and put significant pressure on our healthcare system. Hence it is
important that we put in place appropriate response measures to prepare
ourselves well for this upcoming wave.



2.  We had earlier shifted our approach to manage Omicron
cases like other COVID-19 cases, including to transit Omicron cases to
prevailing Protocols 1-2-3, and allow for home recovery instead of
isolating them at dedicated facilities. Moving ahead, we will further
streamline the management of COVID-19 cases by enhancing Protocols
1-2-3. In particular, we will work with our primary care doctors to
enable them to trigger Protocol 2, to support low-risk individuals with
mild COVID-19 symptoms in recovering safely in the community. To
maximise the level of protection that our population has against the
Omicron variant, we will also require individuals to get their booster
shots in order to maintain their fully vaccinated status.



UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION AND DETECTED OMICRON CASES



3.  Our local COVID-19 situation remains within control. Over
the past week, daily case numbers have been around 200 on average. 16
cases are currently in ICU care. These figures are significantly lower
than when we experienced a peak in infection numbers a few months ago,
indicating that the recent wave of Delta infections has subsided.

_ _

4.  However, we are seeing a growing number of confirmed
Omicron cases even as the Delta wave subsides. Over the past week, we
have detected 1,281 confirmed Omicron cases, comprising 1,048 imported
cases and 233 local cases. This makes up around 18% of our local cases
in the last week. With higher transmissibility of the Omicron variant,
we are likely to experience another wave of community infections soon.



REVISED HEALTHCARE PROTOCOLS

_ _

5.  Since 11 October 2021, we have simplified our healthcare
protocols as part of the broader shift towards personal responsibility
and self-management as appropriate. This has enabled the majority of
COVID-19 patients to self-isolate or recover at home safely once tested
positive. Patients with mild symptoms who are on home recovery programme
generally recover quickly in the comfort of their home without the need
for further medical care. Prevailing evidence also indicates that
Omicron, while more transmissible, is also less severe. We will
therefore further enhance the use of Protocols 1-2-3 to facilitate
streamlined management of COVID-19 cases. FROM 6 JANUARY 2022, we will
manage individuals based on the severity of symptoms and health status,
as laid out in the revised protocols below. Our primary care doctors
will be key, as we allow patients to recover at home and avoid
hospitalisation.



6.  For low-risk individuals with mild symptoms, primary care
doctors can make an immediate diagnosis via a healthcare-administered
antigen rapid test (ART) and continue to care for them under PROTOCOL 2.
To elaborate, after seeing the primary care doctor who has ascertained
that their symptoms are mild and that they are at low risk of developing
severe symptoms:



a.  The individual will be required to self-isolate at home for at
least 72 hours. Following which, if they feel well, they may exit
self-isolation and resume normal activities upon a negative
self-administered ART, similar to Protocol 2. Those who continue to test
ART positive should continue to self-isolate and self-test daily until
they obtain a negative ART result, or until Day 10 for vaccinated
individuals or Day 14¹ for unvaccinated or partially vaccinated
individuals, whichever is earlier.



b.  The individual will receive a 5-day Medical Certificate from the
primary care doctor (or longer, depending on clinical discretion) to
cover the expected period of rest needed for the symptoms to resolve. If
symptoms worsen or do not improve with time, the individual is advised
to return to the doctor or call 995 in emergency situations.



c.  Health Risk Warnings (HRW) will be issued to the individual’s
close contacts, including those identified through the TraceTogether app
and self-declaration of household members. Persons issued with HRW
should follow the prevailing Protocol 3.



7.  Individuals who are assessed by their doctors as high
risk (e.g. elderly, pregnant, immunocompromised status) or with
significant symptoms (e.g. chest pain, shortness of breath, prolonged
fever) will continue to be managed under PROTOCOL 1 where they are
required to undergo both ART and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) swabs
and, if tested positive, will be issued an Isolation Order (IO) for 10
or 14 days, depending on their vaccination status.



8.  Low-risk individuals who are well and/or asymptomatic
will continue to be managed as per existing PROTOCOL 2 if they test
positive on ART.



9.  The Ministry of Health (MOH) will monitor the situation
in the coming weeks and make further adjustments to gradually allow more
individuals to safely recover under Protocol 2 after seeing a primary
care doctor, and support their earlier return to normal activities.



BOOSTER DOSE REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN FULLY VACCINATED STATUS



10.  Vaccination, especially boosters, retain substantial
protection against severe disease for COVID-19 and against the Omicron
variant. Nevertheless, the protection from the primary series
vaccination wanes with time and is substantially reduced six months
after the last dose in the primary vaccination series. International
data has also shown that protection against Omicron variant from a
primary vaccination series is weaker compared to that against the Delta
variant, while boosters increase the protection against infection and
severe illness from Omicron.



11.  In view of these, the Expert Committee on COVID-19
Vaccination (EC19V) has recommended that persons aged 18 years and above
who completed a primary vaccination series should receive a booster dose
of an mRNA vaccine² NO LATER THAN 270 DAYS after the last dose in the
primary vaccination series. This will also apply to individuals who
received recognised non-mRNA primary vaccination regimens offered under
the National Vaccination Programme, such as three doses of the
Sinovac-CoronaVac, or three doses of Sinopharm vaccines, as well as
regimens of other WHO EUL vaccines. For this group, most will not be due
for booster for some time. We expect the Novavax vaccine, which is a
non-mRNA vaccine, to be available to them as an option by then.



12.  Taking into account EC19V’s recommendation, FROM 14
FEBRUARY 2022 ONWARDS, PERSONS AGED 18 YEARS AND ABOVE WHO HAVE
COMPLETED THE PRIMARY VACCINATION SERIES OF COVID-19 VACCINES AND ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR BOOSTER VACCINATION WILL BE CONSIDERED AS FULLY VACCINATED
FOR 270 DAYS AFTER THE LAST DOSE IN THEIR PRIMARY VACCINATION SERIES.
They should receive their booster vaccination from around 5 months
thereafter as recommended and no later than 270 days thereafter, to
ensure an optimal level of protection. Upon receiving their booster,
they will continue to be considered as fully vaccinated beyond the 270
days.



13.  For example, if an individual completed his primary
vaccination series on 1 June 2021, he would be eligible for a booster
vaccination 5 months later, i.e. from 1 November 2021 onwards, and would
have to receive his booster by 26 February 2022 to continue to be
considered as fully vaccinated.³



14.  For vaccinated persons who have recovered from COVID-19, no
additional booster dose is required at this point in time. However,
recovered persons who were unvaccinated or partially vaccinated before
their infection should receive one dose of the mRNA vaccine (two doses
if they are taking Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine⁴) at least three months
after infection to be considered as fully vaccinated. The 270-day
vaccination validity period does not apply to recovered persons who
complete this vaccination requirement.



LEARNING TO LIVE WITH THE OMICRON VARIANT



15.  We remain committed to living normally with COVID-19, while
protecting the vulnerable and ensuring that our healthcare system can
cope with any future infection wave. This is why it is important that
everyone plays their part in getting their vaccinations and booster
doses promptly, complying with safe management measures, testing
regularly, and following the necessary health protocols if tested
positive. We also seek Singaporeans’ continued cooperation and support
in complying with the revised protocols and measures, as we roll them
out in the coming weeks.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

5 JANUARY 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Day 1 is taken as the date of positive healthcare-administered ART.

[2] Persons who are medically ineligible to receive the mRNA vaccine may
consider taking the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine, which is the only
non-mRNA vaccine offered under the National Vaccination Programme, as a
booster vaccine. The Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine should otherwise not be
used as a booster vaccine for other groups.

[3] Eligible individuals can walk in at any Moderna vaccination centre
during operating hours, while appointments can be made for
Pfizer-BioNTech/Cominarty vaccinations.

[4] For recovered individuals who have received a mixed vaccine
combination incorporating Sinovac-CoronaVac or Sinopharm vaccines,
please refer to details of the requirements at
https://go.gov.sg/sinovac-mixed-vac-combi.
