Adjustment of Measures for In-person Visits to Hospitals and Residential
Care Homes



ADJUSTMENT OF MEASURES FOR IN-PERSON VISITS TO HOSPITALS AND RESIDENTIAL CARE HOMES


Published Date: 05 Jul 2022

In view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the community, the
Ministry of Health (MOH) will be adjusting the visitor safe management
measures at all hospital wards¹ and residential care homes (‘Homes’) for
a period of four weeks from 7 July to 3 August 2022 (both dates
inclusive) to protect healthcare capacity and vulnerable patients and
residents during this period.
IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOSPITALS
2. All patients will be allowed two pre-designated visitors for the
duration of their admission, and only one visitor may be allowed at the
bedside at any one time. Critically ill patients will be allowed up to
five pre-designated visitors, and two visitors may be allowed at the
bedside at any one point in time.
3. The visit duration will be limited to 30 minutes. In exceptional
situations, such as for critically ill patients, paediatric patients,
birthing or post-partum mothers, and for patients requiring additional
care support², visitors may be allowed to stay beyond 30 minutes on a
case-by-case basis at the hospitals’ discretion.
4. All visitors are to ensure that they are well and are strongly
encouraged to test themselves with an antigen rapid test (ART) on the
day of the visit to their loved ones at the hospital. Hospitals have the
discretion to impose stricter visitor limits or testing requirements for
visitors of vulnerable or unvaccinated patients.
5. Visitors are reminded not to eat or drink in the hospital wards, or
use the toilets designated for patients in the wards. They should also
avoid sitting on patients’ beds.
IN-PERSON VISITS AT HOMES
6. All residents will be allowed up to four pre-designated visitors, and
only one visitor may visit at any one time with the visit duration
limited to 30 minutes. Visitors should continue to schedule the visits
with the Home ahead of time. All visitors are to ensure that they are
well and are strongly encouraged to test themselves with an ART on the
day of the visit to their loved ones at the Home. Visitors should
strictly adhere to prevailing safe management measures within the Homes.
This includes remaining within the designated visitor areas, outside of
the wards.
7. We also seek the understanding of visitors that visits may have to be
suspended if a Home is managing active COVID-19 cases. Next-of-kin of
residents may approach the Home for further details.
8. All visitors must don face masks with good filtration capability at
all times in the hospitals and Homes. These include surgical masks and
reusable masks that are made of two layers of fabric.
9. The public is encouraged to test and isolate themselves if unwell,
and to seek medical care via the telemedical providers or their family
doctors should their conditions worsen. They should only seek medical
treatment at a hospital’s Emergency Department only for serious or
life-threatening emergencies, such as chest pain, breathlessness and
uncontrollable bleeding. This allows those with severe illness in need
of emergency care to be attended to quickly and helps to preserve our
hospital capacity for those who truly need acute hospital care.
10. MOH will review and calibrate these measures regularly in line with
the evolving situation. We seek the understanding and cooperation of
patients, residents, their family members and loved ones as we work to
reduce the risk of COVID-19 transmission in our healthcare institutions
and residential care homes.

[1] Including public acute hospitals, community hospitals and private
hospitals.
[2] Patients who require additional care support, such as patients who
have mental incapacities, or family members who are undergoing caregiver
training to better care for their loved ones after hospital discharge.

