Update On Tuberculosis Situation In Singapore



UPDATE ON TUBERCULOSIS SITUATION IN SINGAPORE


Published Date: 24 Mar 2022

               On World Tuberculosis (TB) Day on 24 March, Singapore
joins the global community in reiterating our commitment to continue the
fight against TB. The World Health Organization’s (WHO) theme for 2022’s
World TB Day is “Invest to End TB. Save Lives”, which conveys the
pressing need to commit resources to accelerate the fight against TB.



2.  TB remains a global public health threat. In 2020, there
were an estimated 9.9 million cases of active TB globally, with 1.5
million deaths. In addition, there were almost half a million cases of
multi-drug resistant TB (MDRTB). MDRTB is more difficult to treat and
has lower cure rates, with death rates as high as 30 to 40 percent.



3.  TB is endemic in Singapore and latent TB infection is not
uncommon in our population, with rates of up to 30 per cent in the older
age groups. Singapore’s TB testing capacity remained stable during the
COVID-19 pandemic and there was no decrease in access to testing. In
2021, there were 1,306 new cases of active TB among Singapore residents.
This is lower than the 1,360 cases in 2020. The incidence rate was 32.8
cases per 100,000 population in 2021, compared to 33.6 cases per 100,000
in 2020. Older age groups and males continue to make up a significant
proportion of the new active TB disease cases. Please refer to the Annex
for details.



TB SCREENING AND TREATMENT IN SINGAPORE



4.  TB is an air-borne disease and is transmitted through
close and prolonged exposure to an infectious individual with untreated,
active pulmonary (lung) TB disease. Not all individuals who are exposed
to an infectious individual will get TB.



5.  TB is curable and the spread of TB is preventable. To
ensure early detection and treatment, and to curtail the spread of TB,
the National TB Programme (STEP) carries out contact tracing and
screening of close contacts to ensure that those at risk of infection
are tested and receive appropriate treatment.



6.  Persons diagnosed with active TB disease will be started
on treatment immediately and placed on medical leave. Once treatment
starts, the person will rapidly become non-infectious and no longer pose
as a source for infection. There is no further risk of exposure in the
workplace or school, and there is therefore no need for workplaces or
places where a recently diagnosed active TB case disease has visited to
be closed. Close contacts found to have latent TB infection are not
infectious and can continue their activities as usual.



7.  While there are national control measures in place to
reduce the risk of TB transmission in Singapore, everyone plays an
important role in preventing the spread of TB. Individuals who are
unwell and display symptoms, such as prolonged cough, should seek
medical attention early to ensure prompt diagnosis and treatment.



IMPORTANCE OF TREATMENT ADHERENCE



8.  The full course of active TB disease treatment takes six
to nine months (up to 24 months for drug-resistant TB). If patients do
not adhere strictly to the treatment programme (e.g. taking their
medication on time and completing the full course of medication), there
is a higher chance of disease relapse and developing MDRTB.



9.  DIRECTLY OBSERVED TREATMENT (DOT) IS A WIDELY USED
STRATEGY TO ENSURE TREATMENT ADHERENCE GLOBALLY, AND IT remains a pillar
of TB control in Singapore. IT COMPRISES THE ADMINISTRATION OF TB
MEDICINES BY A TRAINED HEALTHCARE WORKER TO THE PATIENT.



10.  Support and encouragement from patients’ family members,
friends and co-workers are vital in ensuring that TB patients
successfully complete their treatment. Employers can also play their
part, by granting their employees flexibility during the day to access
DOT. Treatment adherence and completion will not only benefit the
patient, but also protect patients’ family, workplace and community from
infection.



11.  With everyone playing their part, we can ensure that TB
patients are treated effectively and reduce community transmission of TB
in Singapore. More information on TB is available at the MOH website or
the HealthHub website.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

24 MARCH 2022
