Supervised Self-administered Antigen Rapid Test Available At Test
Centres



SUPERVISED SELF-ADMINISTERED ANTIGEN RAPID TEST AVAILABLE AT TEST CENTRES


Published Date: 15 Feb 2022

            To ease the pressure on our General Practitioner (GP)
clinics and polyclinics and allow them to focus on patients who
genuinely require medical attention, from 16 February to 15 March 2022
[1], persons who test positive for COVID-19 on their self-administered
Antigen Rapid Test (ART), and have no or mild symptoms, can book an
appointment at any Combined Test Centre (CTC) or Quick Test Centre (QTC)
to do a supervised self-administered ART.



2.  In recent weeks, GP clinics, polyclinics and hospitals
have continued to report a surge in the number of patients, many with no
or mild symptoms visiting to get an ART conducted by a medical
professional and officially documented in the Ministry of Health’s (MOH)
records. The hospitals’ Emergency Departments have similarly received
many patients who are not in need of emergency medical assistance. These
visits are not necessary, and risk compromising the standard of care for
those who genuinely require medical attention.

3.  From tomorrow, these individuals can do their supervised
self-administered ART at CTCs and QTCs located island-wide. We will
start with 48 centres, and ramp up to about 205 by the end of the week.
These supervised self-administered ARTs will be fully funded by the
Government for these 4 weeks.



4.  The ART test results will be updated in MOH’s record and
reflected in their HealthHub within about 30 minutes. The CTCs and QTCs
will not issue recovery memos or medical certificates as these are not
required by employees and students to return to work or school.



5.  Persons will be notified of their ART test result over
SMS. Upon testing positive on the supervised self-administered ART,
these persons will be placed under Protocol 2 and can each collect three
ART kits from vending machines [2]. Under today’s health protocols, they
are to self-isolate at home for at least 72 hours, and should visit a GP
clinic only if they feel unwell. Once they feel well and test negative
on their self-administered ART, they may exit isolation to resume normal
activities.



6.  Members of the public can book their supervised
self-administered ART at https://go.gov.sg/community-ART-test.



7.  We seek everyone’s continued effort and cooperation to do
our part to preserve our medical resources for those who are in need.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
15 FEBRUARY 2022

[1] To be further reviewed for extension.
[2] Visit gowhere.gov.sg/art for the vending machine locations.
Locations of Combined Test Centres and Quick Test Centres
