Investigation Into Allegations of Improper Conduct of Pre-event Testing
and Falsification of Vaccination Records



INVESTIGATION INTO ALLEGATIONS OF IMPROPER CONDUCT OF PRE-EVENT TESTING AND FALSIFICATION OF VACCINATION RECORDS


Published Date: 23 Jan 2022

The Ministry of Health (MOH) is investigating Wan Medical Clinic which
had allegedly partnered Ms Iris Koh, the founder of the group known as
“Healing the Divide” (HTD), to offer “remote” Antigen Rapid Test (ART)
Pre-Event Testing (PET) for members of HTD.
2. MOH started its investigations following an anonymous feedback in
December 2021. Wan Medical Clinic was found to have allowed individuals
to allegedly submit to the clinic pre-recorded videos and/ or photos
purporting to show that they had performed ART PET on themselves. The
clinic then uploaded the negative ART results for these individuals.
3. Among other safeguards and requirements, supervised PET must be
conducted in real time and in the presence of a registered medical
practitioner or qualified self-administered test supervisor. The conduct
of any unsupervised PET is a breach of Regulation 12(1A) of the
Infectious Diseases (Antigen Rapid Test Providers) Regulations 2021
(“ART Regulations”). Under Regulation 12(4) of the ART Regulations, if
convicted of an offence under Regulation 12(1A), the test provider could
face a fine not exceeding $5,000 or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or both.
4. In the course of MOH’s investigations, we also found that a
registered medical practitioner in this clinic, Dr Jipson Quah, has been
allegedly involved in providing a vaccination service where false
information was caused to be submitted to the National Immunisation
Registry to indicate that COVID-19 vaccines had been administered to
individuals, when they had in fact not received such vaccinations. In
this manner, the individuals will be considered as vaccinated and be
eligible for all vaccination-differentiated safe management measures.
5. Dr Quah was also found to have allegedly submitted a false positive
ART result to the Patient Risk Profile Portal, a national healthcare
system used by doctors to upload ART results and other patient
information, so that the unvaccinated patient could obtain a recovered
status and be exempted from vaccination-differentiated safe management
measures.
6. A police report has been lodged on 21 January 2022 for further
investigations to be conducted into the matter.
7. To safeguard public health and ensure that clinic practices are in
line with national COVID-19 policies and regulations, whilst pending the
outcome of investigations, MOH will be issuing notices of intention of
suspension to the four medical clinics i.e. Wan Medical Clinic, Mayfair
Medical Clinic, Mayfair Medical Clinic (Yishun Chong Pang), and Ong
Clinic & Surgery (Yishun), which were licensed to Dr Quah and/or which
he is a clinic manager, as well as revoking the ART approvals for these
clinics. MOH will also be referring Dr Quah to the Singapore Medical
Council for further investigations.
