Singapore’s First Resolution Successfully Adopted At 75th World Health
Assembly In Geneva, Switzerland



SINGAPORE’S FIRST RESOLUTION SUCCESSFULLY ADOPTED AT 75TH WORLD HEALTH ASSEMBLY IN GENEVA, SWITZERLAND


Published Date: 27 May 2022

1.     Singapore’s first resolution _Strengthening Health Emergency
Preparedness and Response in Cities and Urban Settings_ was adopted at
the 75th World Health Assembly (WHA) on 27 May 2022, with co-sponsorship
from countries from all six World Health Organization (WHO) regions.



2.          The resolution urges WHO and its Member States to invest
sufficiently in urban health emergency preparedness and adopt a
whole-of-government and multisectoral approach in planning and response
to health emergencies in cities and urban settings, with emphasis on
including subnational levels and subpopulations. The resolution also
calls for collaboration with international partners to support learning
and sharing of good practices.





3.          In his intervention delivered at the World Health Assembly
during the discussion on the resolution, Minister for Health Mr Ong Ye
Kung urged Member States to take steps now to strengthen health
emergency preparedness and response, especially in cities and urban
settings, as they are the first line of readiness and response.



4.          The adoption of the resolution signals clear recognition by
Member States of the critical role played by cities in health emergency
preparedness, with cities often being both vulnerable to outbreaks, but
also having the capacity to deliver a strong response.



5.           In his intervention, Minister Ong also urged WHO Member
States to ramp up COVID-19 vaccination efforts, which will allow Member
States to reduce severe illness and deaths, while enabling trade and
travel to continue.



6.          With the WHA proceedings drawing to a close, Singapore will
also complete its three-year WHO Executive Board (EB) term (2019 to
2022) and its term as an appointed member of the Bureau of the Member
States Working Group on Strengthening WHO Preparedness and Response to
Health Emergencies (WGPR).



7.          During the trip, Minister Ong also held bilateral meetings
with H.E. Magnus Heunicke, Minister of Health, Denmark; H.E. Khairy
Jamaluddin, Minister of Health, Malaysia; H.E. Andrew Little, Minister
of Health, New Zealand; H.E. Anutin Charnvirakul, Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of Public Health, Thailand; H.E. Ernst Kuipers, Minister of
Health, Welfare and Sport, the Netherlands; H.E. Sajid Javid, Secretary
of State for Health and Social Care, UK; as well as WHO Director-General
Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and other members of the WHO senior
leadership team.



8.          Singapore looks forward to continued partnership with the
WHO on global health issues, including enhancing pandemic preparedness,
strengthening healthcare systems and health development, combating
non-communicable diseases and promoting universal health coverage.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH
27 MAY 2022
