Suspension of Burger and Lobster Singapore Pte Ltd’s Food Business
Operations At Jewel Changi Airport



SUSPENSION OF BURGER AND LOBSTER SINGAPORE PTE LTD’S FOOD BUSINESS OPERATIONS AT JEWEL CHANGI AIRPORT


Published Date: 16 May 2022

             The Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Singapore Food Agency
(SFA) are investigating six incidents of gastroenteritis affecting a
total of 17 persons after consuming food prepared by Burger and Lobster
Singapore Pte Ltd located at Jewel Changi Airport between 7 and 15 May
2022. Four persons were hospitalised. One had since been discharged, and
the three remaining hospitalised cases are currently stable. The
remaining cases either sought outpatient treatment, self-medicated, or
recovered without treatment.
2            In view of the suspected ongoing transmission, SFA has
suspended the food business operations of Burger and Lobster Singapore
Pte Ltd at Jewel Changi Airport, with effect from 16 May 2022 until
further notice.
3             All food handlers working in the premises are required to
re-attend and pass the Food Safety Course Level 1 and test negative for
foodborne pathogens, before they can resume work as food handlers. The
appointed Food Hygiene Officer working at the premises must re-attend
and pass the WSQ Conduct Food and Beverage Hygiene Audit course before
he/she can resume work as a Food Hygiene Officer. The licensee is also
required to clean and sanitise the premises, including equipment and
utensils, and dispose all ready-to-eat food and perishable food items.
4            Food safety is a joint responsibility. SFA would like to
remind food operators to observe good food and personal hygiene
practices at all times. SFA will not hesitate to take firm action
against anyone found to be in violation of the Environmental Public
Health Act. In the interest of maintaining a high standard of food
hygiene at all eating establishments, we would also like to advise
members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food
establishments not to patronise such outlets but to report to SFA via
the online feedback form (www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback) with details for our
follow-up investigations.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND SINGAPORE FOOD AGENCY
16 MAY 2022


