Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Recommends A Second Booster
Dose of Mrna Covid-19 Vaccine for Persons Aged 80 Years and Above, Five
Months After Completion of the First Booster



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION RECOMMENDS A SECOND BOOSTER DOSE OF MRNA COVID-19 VACCINE FOR PERSONS AGED 80 YEARS AND ABOVE, FIVE MONTHS AFTER COMPLETION OF THE FIRST BOOSTER


Published Date: 24 Mar 2022

         The Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has been
closely reviewing the data regarding the need for additional vaccine
doses, and recommends that the following groups of persons receive a
second booster dose (i.e. fourth dose if receiving an mRNA vaccine) from
about five months after receiving their first booster dose:

a.  All persons aged 80 years and above;

b. Persons living in aged care facilities, such as nursing homes;
and

c.         Medically vulnerable persons who are at increased risk of
severe disease due to significant medical risk factors¹.



2.  Local data to date shows protection against severe
disease is sustained after the third dose mRNA booster. However, there
can be waning of protection, particularly in the elderly and medically
vulnerable. International studies show that vaccine efficacy against
hospitalisation declines after a third dose mRNA booster. In the US CDC
report for the Omicron-dominant period, vaccine efficacy against
hospitalisation was 91% at 2 months after the third dose and decreased
to 78% by the fourth month. Similar findings were also reported by the
UK Health Security Agency.



3.  Persons aged 80 years and above, and persons with
comorbidities are at increased risk of severe disease. They will be most
affected by waning vaccine efficacy over time. Data from Israel’s
rollout of the fourth dose also shows that the benefits are greatest in
persons aged 80 years and above.



4.  EC19V therefore recommends that persons aged 80 and above
should receive a second booster dose (i.e. fourth dose if receiving an
mRNA vaccine). Persons in aged care facilities such as nursing homes
tend to have comorbidities and should similarly be vaccinated even if
they have not reached 80 years of age. Vulnerable persons who are at
increased risk of severe disease due to significant medical risk factors
should also be vaccinated. These include persons with chronic diseases
of the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver and other organ systems.



5.  Healthy persons in younger age groups have a lower risk
of severe disease, and better immune responses to vaccination. There is
currently no recommendation for them to receive an additional dose of
vaccine after the first booster dose.



6.          As EC19V had previously recommended, immunocompromised
persons are recommended to receive three doses as part of their primary
enhanced series and to receive the first booster dose (i.e. fourth dose)
around five months after the third dose. There is no recommendation for
a second booster dose for this group currently.



7.  EC19V will continue to monitor the data and developments
around COVID-19 vaccination and will update its recommendations based on
the latest scientific and clinical evidence.





EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION
24 MARCH 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Vulnerable persons may receive a second booster dose as recommended
by their doctors. Vulnerable persons are individuals who are at
increased risk of severe disease due to significant medical risk
factors. These include persons with chronic diseases of the heart,
lungs, kidneys, liver and other organ systems.


