All Eligible Age Groups Can Now Walk In for Primary Vaccination Series
and Booster Doses



ALL ELIGIBLE AGE GROUPS CAN NOW WALK IN FOR PRIMARY VACCINATION SERIES AND BOOSTER DOSES


Published Date: 16 Mar 2022

          From 17 March 2022, all individuals regardless of age who are
eligible for COVID-19 vaccination will be able to walk in for their
primary vaccination series and booster doses without the need for an
appointment every day of the week, before 7pm.



2. This means that children aged 5 to 11 years can walk in with
their parents/guardians to any paediatric vaccination centre¹  (VC) to
receive their vaccination doses. Similarly, individuals aged 12 to 17
years may now walk in to any VC offering the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
vaccine to receive their primary vaccination series and booster dose.
Individuals aged 18 years and above may walk into any VC offering mRNA
vaccines to receive their primary vaccination series and booster dose.



UPDATE ON PAEDIATRIC VACCINATION FOR CHILDREN AGED BETWEEN 5 AND 11



3. As of 13 March 2022, about a quarter million children aged
between 5 to 11 have signed up for COVID-19 vaccination. 444,000 doses
have been administered, with 248,000 children receiving at least their
first dose, while 196,000 have received their second dose. Among the
students in our primary schools, 83% have received at least their first
dose, while 69% have received both doses. In addition, over 29,000
children born in 2016 and 2017 have registered on the Ministry of
Health’s National Appointment System. 28,000 have received at least
their first dose, while 17,000 have received their second dose.



4.             For the convenience of parents/guardians of children who
may have missed their second dose appointment, they can re-book their
second dose vaccination appointment or walk in with their child/ward to
the same paediatric VC² where the child received their first dose on any
day before 7pm³ to complete the vaccination. Should the paediatric VC no
longer be in operation⁴, parents/guardians may bring their child/ward to
any paediatric VCs for their second dose. We strongly encourage children
to complete both doses of the COVID-19 vaccine.



5.       We seek the understanding and cooperation of parents/guardians
to keep to the stipulated hours for the walk-in arrangement, so that we
can provide a smooth and orderly vaccination process for all our
children. Parents/guardians should release any prior bookings made, if
they vaccinate their child/ward under the walk-in arrangement.



6.  All children aged 5 to 11 must also be accompanied by one
parent/guardian at the VC for their vaccination. On the day of the
vaccination, parents/guardians should bring along Student
Identification, or if not available, other forms of identification (e.g.
Birth Certificate/Passport/SingPass) for verification. Parents/guardians
will also be required to bring a signed hard or soft copy of the
parental consent form, which can be downloaded at
https://go.gov.sg/parcf.



7.           Children who have an official record of their COVID-19
infection would be considered fully vaccinated after receiving a single
dose of the vaccine post-infection. Children who had recovered from
COVID-19 and have yet to complete their primary vaccination series are
recommended to receive a single dose of the vaccine at least three
months after the date of their infection to complete their vaccination.
Children who tested positive on a self-administered antigen rapid test
(ART), or via ARTs not done at an approved test provider, would not have
an official record of his/her infection. These children would need to
receive two doses of the vaccine to be considered fully vaccinated. It
is safe for them to do so.



UPDATE ON BOOSTER DOSES FOR INDIVIDUALS AGED 12 AND ABOVE



8.           As of 15 March 2022, 70% of the total population have
received their booster dose.



9.  The Ministry of Health and the Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination had previously recommended for all persons aged 12
years and above to receive a booster dose of mRNA vaccine offered under
the National Vaccination Programme five months after completing their
primary vaccination series. They are considered fully vaccinated for 270
days after the last dose of their primary vaccination series, and will
require a booster dose to maintain their vaccinated status thereafter.



10.  Persons who have recovered from COVID-19 infection and
completed the recommended COVID-19 vaccination may receive a booster
vaccination. It is safe for them to do so. They may receive the booster
dose 28 days after infection, although they are recommended to do so
three months from the infection and around five months after the last
dose of their primary vaccination series (whichever is later) for better
effectiveness.



11.  Individuals aged 12 to 17 will require the consent of their
parent/guardian to receive the booster dose, and should bring along
their Student Identification, or if not available, other forms of
identification (e.g. Birth Certificate/Passport/SingPass) for
verification purposes. All children aged 12 to 17 will also be required
to bring a signed hard or soft copy of the parental consent form, which
can be downloaded at https://go.gov.sg/parcf. Parents/guardians of
children aged 13 and above are not required to accompany them on the day
of vaccination. However, children aged 12 will need to be accompanied by
a parent/guardian, as per the arrangements for the primary vaccination
series.



12.  We invite individuals and parents/guardians to take full
advantage of the capacity and good geographical spread of our VCs,
before more VCs are closed down in the coming weeks. The list of
vaccination centres can be found at www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations-vcs.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
16 MARCH 2022

[1] The paediatric VC at Yusof Ishak Secondary School (VC@YISS) has
ceased all walk-in appointments for the first dose since 10 March 2022.

[2] Parents/guardians getting their child/ward vaccinated under this
arrangement at VC@YISS can do so from Tuesday to Saturday before 4pm as
the VC@YISS is closed on Sunday and Monday.

[3] Prior to this arrangement, children aged 5 to 11 could only walk in
to any paediatric VC from Monday to Thursday before 7pm.

[4] The paediatric VCs at Nanyang Community Club (CC) and Queenstown CC
were closed on 28 February 2022, while VC@YISS will cease operations on
1 April 2022.
