Clementi Polyclinic to Be Redeveloped At New Site by 2027; New
Polyclinic In Taman Jurong Area by 2028



CLEMENTI POLYCLINIC TO BE REDEVELOPED AT NEW SITE BY 2027; NEW POLYCLINIC IN TAMAN JURONG AREA BY 2028


Published Date: 01 Jun 2022

Clementi Polyclinic will be redeveloped at a new site to better serve
the needs of residents in and around Clementi. The standalone
development will be ready by 2027. A new polyclinic in the Taman Jurong
area will also be opened by 2028. Both the redeveloped Clementi
Polyclinic and the new polyclinic in Taman Jurong will be operated by
the National University Polyclinics (NUP). The details of these
polyclinics were announced by Dr Janil Puthucheary, Senior Minister of
State, Ministry of Communications and Information, and Ministry of
Health (MOH), at a visit to the existing Clementi Polyclinic on 1 June
2022.
REDEVELOPED CLEMENTI POLYCLINIC
2.  The redeveloped Clementi Polyclinic will be located at a vacant
site along Commonwealth Avenue West. The site is conveniently located
about 250 metres or a a five-minute walk from Clementi MRT Station
(refer to Annex A for map). It is about 650 metres away from the
existing Clementi Polyclinic at Clementi Avenue 3.
3.  Opened in 1980, Clementi Polyclinic is one of the oldest and
smallest polyclinics in Singapore. The redeveloped polyclinic will be
larger and will continue to provide a comprehensive range of primary
care services, including medical treatment for acute conditions, chronic
disease management, allied health services, women’s and children’s
health services, as well as radiological, laboratory and pharmacy
services.
4.  We have previously started mother-child dyad service pilots at two
of our polyclinics (Punggol Polyclinic and Yishun Polyclinic), and will
scale this up to 12 more polyclinics, including Clementi Polyclinic,
over the next three years. The expanded pilot to provide lactation
support for new mothers at NUP will also continue to be offered at the
redeveloped polyclinic.
5.  Once redeveloped, the polyclinic will be more spacious and
incorporate more elderly-friendly and accessibility features for the
convenience of the patients. The existing Clementi Polyclinic will
continue to serve residents until the new polyclinic is operational.
NEW POLYCLINIC IN TAMAN JURONG
6. The new polyclinic in Taman Jurong will be located at the site of
the former West Point Hospital [1], at 235 Corporation Drive (refer
to Annex B for map). Together with Pioneer and Jurong Polyclinics, the
polyclinic in Taman Jurong will serve residents in Jurong.
7.  The polyclinic in Taman Jurong will incorporate elderly-friendly
and accessibility features for the convenience of the patients. It will
also provide a comprehensive range of primary care services such
as medical treatment for acute conditions, chronic disease management,
women’s and children’s health services, allied health services, as well
as radiological, laboratory and pharmacy services.
8.  As our population ages and chronic disease burden prevalence
increases, it is important that Singaporeans continue to have access to
affordable primary care in the community. To strengthen and refresh our
public healthcare infrastructure to ensure that they can continue to
meet our population’s healthcare needs and be ready in the event of
future pandemics, MOH has been strengthening our primary care
accessibility and capacity and this includes development of new
polyclinics and the redevelopment of existing ones. Singaporeans can
look forward to ten new polyclinics over the coming years, in Bidadari,
Bishan, Kaki Bukit, Khatib, Sembawang, Serangoon, Taman Jurong, Tampines
North, Tengah, and Yew Tee. With these new polyclinics, we will expand
our network of polyclinics to 32 [2] by 2030.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH

1 JUNE 2022

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] West Point Hospital ceased operations from September 2018.

[2] Currently, there are 23 polyclinics, and our target of 32
polyclinics will be achieved after consolidating Bukit Merah Polyclinic
and Outram Polyclinic into a larger new polyclinic in Tiong Bahru by
2030.
