Preparing for Rise In Covid-19 Cases Driven by the Ba.4 and Ba.5
Subvariants



PREPARING FOR RISE IN COVID-19 CASES DRIVEN BY THE BA.4 AND BA.5 SUBVARIANTS


Published Date: 27 Jun 2022

1.     The Ministry of Health has been monitoring the rise in COVID-19
cases driven by the BA.4 and BA.5 subvariants. About 45% of the COVID-19
cases in the community in the past week were cases with BA.4 and BA.5
subvariants, up from 30% the week before. BA.5 alone is estimated to
have contributed to 40% of all cases in the past week.

2.     However, international and local data show that the BA.4 and BA.5
subvariants do not result in more severe outcomes as compared to the
earlier Omicron strains. Coupled with our population’s high vaccination
coverage, the number of severe COVID-19 infections has remained
manageable. Our hospitals and COVID-19 Treatment Facilities (CTFs) are
prepared to cope with the projected surge in cases. We also have
contingency plans to ramp up our healthcare capacity quickly, if needed.

NO CHANGES TO SAFE MANAGEMENT MEASURES (SMMS)

3.     We will not be making changes to our SMMs at this juncture.
Masking up while indoors will continue to be required, as a key line of
defense. The current set of Vaccination-Differentiated SMMs for some
higher-risk activities will remain unchanged. However, we are monitoring
the situation closely, and do not rule out the need to tighten SMMs
should the need arise.

Practising Social Responsibility

4.     Meanwhile, everyone should continue to exercise social
responsibility and take additional precautions in the coming weeks to
protect ourselves and our loved ones. This can be done by keeping masks
on while indoors; avoiding in-person interactions if you feel unwell or
display COVID-19 symptoms; regular testing using an Antigen Rapid Test
(ART) especially when feeling unwell or before visiting vulnerable
family members and friends, including family members in hospitals and
residential care facilities; and placing greater emphasis on personal
hygiene. Symptomatic persons may need to repeat the ART daily over a few
days to rule out the possibility of false negatives in the early stages
of an infection.

NATIONWIDE ART KITS DISTRIBUTION

5.     To support self-testing, MOH will be conducting a third national
distribution of 10 ART kits to each residential household from 18 July
2022 onwards via SingPost. Due to the high volume of ART kits being
distributed, we seek the public’s patience and understanding that it
could take a few weeks for some households to receive the kits.

6.     To support lower-income households who require more ART kits for
self-testing beyond what MOH will be providing, beneficiaries of Social
Service Offices (SSOs) and Family Service Centres (FSCs) may continue to
request for additional ART kits at these locations. In addition, MOH
will be working with the Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Early
Childhood Development Agency (ECDA) to provide ART kits on request to
students from lower-income households. More information on the provision
of these ART kits to be distributed by schools and educational
institutions will be separately shared with students and parents.

STRENGTHENING PROTECTION THROUGH VACCINATIONS AND BOOSTERS

7.     The most important step to protect ourselves is taking our
vaccinations and boosters. Three doses of mRNA vaccine (two primary
series plus a booster) are needed to properly protect ourselves against
the Omicron variant. Currently, there are still close to 70,000 eligible
seniors aged 60 years and above who have not received their third shot
or first booster. Family and friends of these seniors should encourage
them to receive their booster doses without delay, so that they can stay
protected against severe illness.

8.     As for second boosters, not all individuals are recommended to
take it. This is because after the first booster, the protection against
severe illness remains very strong for most people, likely for a longer
term. However, international studies show that some groups, even after
the first booster, are at an increased risk of severe disease and will
be most affected by waning vaccine efficacy over time.

9.     The following groups of persons are therefore strongly
recommended to receive a second COVID-19 booster around five months
after their first booster:

a.  All persons aged 80 years and above;
b.  Persons living in aged care facilities; and
c.  Medically vulnerable persons aged 18 and above who are at higher
    risk of severe COVID-19, such as those with medical risk factors (as
    listed in ANNEX).



10.     For persons who do not fall into these groups, for now, there is
no recommendation for them to receive a second booster. They continue to
be well-protected against severe disease after their first booster dose.

11.     Nevertheless, we have been offering the second booster to all
persons aged 50 to 79 years under the National Vaccination Programme,
and will continue to do so. They can choose to take a second booster if
they are concerned about their individual risk of severe COVID-19 as
this is around the age where risk increases as chronic diseases start to
set in. Such persons who live with elderly or medically vulnerable
family members, or intend to travel overseas, should consider taking up
the second booster.

12.     All persons eligible for their primary series vaccination, first
booster or second booster may receive their doses by walking into any of
the 10 Joint Testing and Vaccination Centres (JTVCs) located across the
island. The full list of JTVCs, their locations and opening hours can be
found at www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations/jtvc. Residents may also book an
appointment at the JTVCs/ participating Public Health Preparedness
Clinics (PHPCs)/ polyclinics via their SMS invitation.

13.     From 27 June 2022, Mobile Vaccination Teams (MVTs) have been
deployed to selected heartland locations to make it even more convenient
for our seniors to get vaccinated and boosted. The MVTs will be deployed
at selected Residents’ Committee Centres at residential blocks and
Community Centres. Each MVT will be deployed at a given site for two
days before moving on to the next location.

14.     MOH and the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination will
continue to monitor the COVID-19 situation and the level of protection
against COVID-19 in various segments of the population. We will make
recommendations for the second booster in younger age groups when there
is a need to do so. In the meantime, such persons are strongly
encouraged to receive their primary series and first booster dose if
they have not yet done so.

WEATHERING THE NEXT COVID-19 WAVE

15.     Singapore remains well positioned to be a COVID-19 resilient
nation. We have sufficient resources and are well prepared to ride the
impending rise in cases. While MOH continues to monitor the situation
closely, living safely with COVID-19 is a collective effort. We urge
everyone to take the necessary precautions, and remain socially
responsible by observing the SMMs, conducting regular self-tests, and
avoiding social interactions if one has fever or respiratory symptoms,
or tests positive for COVID-19.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

27 JUNE 2022
