Start of Nuvaxovid Covid-19 Vaccination and Joint Testing Vaccination
Centre Operations



START OF NUVAXOVID COVID-19 VACCINATION AND JOINT TESTING VACCINATION CENTRE OPERATIONS


Published Date: 13 May 2022

        Starting today, individuals aged 18 years and above who are
recommended to receive COVID-19 vaccination, including boosters, may
book an appointment to receive the Nuvaxovid COVID-19 vaccine
(Nuvaxovid) by Novavax at the Joint Testing and Vaccination Centre
(JTVC) Bishan (former Bishan Park Secondary School), or any of the 20
participating Public Health Preparedness Clinics (PHPCs). The PHPCs will
commence Nuvaxovid vaccination from 18 May 2022, while the JTVC Bishan
will commence vaccination services from 24 May 2022.
2.     The JTVC Bishan is one of five JTVCs, a new class of facility
offering both COVID-19 testing and vaccination services, which will
begin operations from 24 May 2022. The list of JTVCs and participating
PHPCs can be found at www.vaccine.gov.sg/locations.
JOINT TESTING AND VACCINATION CENTRES
3.     As of 12 May 2022, 92% of our total population have completed
their primary vaccination series and 75% have received their booster
doses. With good vaccination coverage and the majority of our total
population well-protected, we will be progressively stepping down the
number of Vaccination Centres (VCs) from end-May 2022, as previously
announced on 22 April 2022.
4.     To ensure that COVID-19 testing and vaccination services remain
accessible to the general public, we will be establishing a first
tranche of five JTVCs on 24 May 2022, with another five JTVCs opening
progressively across the island from end-June 2022. These centres are
designed with the ability to scale up operations in the event of an
emerging Variant of Concern in future.
5.     To enable the medical service providers to better manage vaccine
preparation and reduce any unnecessary wastage, the public are strongly
encouraged to book an appointment via the National Appointment System
before proceeding to the JTVCs. Please refer to Annex A for the list of
the JTVCs.
ROLLOUT OF NUVAXOVID VACCINATION
6.     Persons who have yet to take a dose of any COVID-19 vaccine and
wish to receive Nuvaxovid for their primary vaccination series may
register their interest at vaccine.gov.sg from today. An SMS with a
personalised booking link will be sent to the registered mobile number
to book an appointment on the National Appointment System. Those with an
existing SMS to book an appointment may use the booking link in that SMS
to book their Nuvaxovid vaccination appointments.
7.     As recommended by the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination,
individuals aged 18 years and above may receive the Nuvaxovid vaccine
for their primary series or booster vaccination, although the mRNA
vaccines remain the preferred vaccines due to their higher efficacy and
the stronger immune response generated. Those who are medically
ineligible to receive the mRNA vaccines should consider the Nuvaxovid.
Under the National Vaccination Programme, the Sinovac-Coronvac vaccine
will only be made available as a booster to persons who are medically
ineligible¹ to receive the mRNA vaccines and Nuvaxovid. Persons
receiving Nuvaxovid for their primary vaccination series are recommended
to receive two doses at least 21 days apart. Those receiving Nuvaxovid
for their first or second booster dose are recommended to receive it
from about five months after their last dose.
8.     Persons aged 18 and above will need to be medically ineligible to
mRNA, Nuvaxovid and Sinovac-CoronaVac COVID-19 vaccines to be considered
medically ineligible for COVID-19 vaccination in Singapore and exempted
from Vaccination-Differentiated Safe Management Measures.
9.     Individuals who are currently medically ineligible for mRNA and
Sinovac-CoronaVac would need to complete their vaccination with
Nuvaxovid or be reassessed as medically ineligible to all COVID-19
vaccines under the National Vaccination Programme by their doctors to
maintain their vaccination status. The validity of medical ineligibility
memos issued before 1 June 2022 will expire on 1 August 2022. Medical
ineligibility memos issued on 1 June 2022 onwards will be valid and
required for these individuals to maintain their vaccination status past
1 August 2022.
10.     Boosters and vaccinations remain a critical part of our COVID-19
strategy in ensuring our population is well-protected against infection
and severe illness. We urge all who are eligible for vaccinations and
booster doses to receive them as soon as possible.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
13 MAY 2022
¹ Individuals who are medically ineligible for mRNA COVID-19 vaccines
include those who developed anaphylaxis/severe allergic reactions or
myocarditis/pericarditis to a previous dose of any mRNA vaccine.
Individuals who are medically ineligible for Nuvaxovid include those who
had anaphylaxis/severe allergic reactions to a previous dose of the
vaccine, or to any ingredients in the vaccine.

