Expert Committee On Covid-19 Vaccination Updates Recommendations On
Covid-19 Booster Vaccination



EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION UPDATES RECOMMENDATIONS ON COVID-19 BOOSTER VACCINATION


Published Date: 09 Feb 2023

1.     For 2023, the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) is
recommending that the following groups receive one booster dose of
COVID-19 vaccine at one year after their last booster dose:



(a) ages 60 years and above,

(b) medically vulnerable persons aged 12 years and above, or,
(c) residents living in aged care facilities.



Other persons aged 12 years and above may also do so if they choose.



ADDITIONAL BOOSTER DOSE ENHANCES PROTECTION, ESPECIALLY IN HIGHER RISK
INDIVIDUALS



2.     The EC19V has reviewed the approach for vaccination, as the
COVID-19 situation in Singapore reaches a more stable state. Periodic
COVID-19 vaccination such as annual doses may be needed.



3.     Based on the current local and international epidemiological
trends, as well as our updated understanding of COVID-19, the EC19V is
updating its COVID-19 vaccination recommendations for the calendar year
2023.



4.     There is currently a high level of hybrid immunity in our
population, resulting from high vaccination coverage as well as a large
proportion of our population having recovered from COVID-19 infection.
 Hence, protection against severe disease in boosted individuals is
likely to be at a high level.



5.     Nevertheless, new variants of COVID-19 are continuing to emerge.
The current protection against infection by COVID-19 will wane over
time. Therefore ensuring protection against COVID-19 through vaccine
booster doses remains important, especially for the groups at highest
risk for COVID-19 complications.



6.     Individuals in older age groups, and patients who are
immunocompromised and/or with chronic diseases (see Annex) are
particularly vulnerable to any changes in the COVID-19 situation given
their underlying susceptibility to develop severe disease, as well as
COVID-19 destabilising their other medical conditions.  Hence enhancing
protection for these groups is recommended.



7.     Studies have shown that a booster dose, especially with updated
bivalent vaccines, enhances protection against Omicron variants. The
safety profile of additional booster doses, as well as the updated
bivalent vaccines, is comparable to that of previous doses.



8.     Since persons at higher risk for severe COVID-19 will derive the
greatest benefit from an additional booster dose, these groups are
recommended to receive a dose in 2023 around 12 months after their last
dose. Younger healthy persons may receive an additional booster around
12 months after their last dose, if they would like to do so.

HIGHER RISK INDIVIDUALS RECOMMENDED AN ADDITIONAL BOOSTER DOSE IN 2023



9.     Based on the considerations outlined above, EC19V recommends that
the following persons receive in 2023, one booster dose of COVID-19
vaccine at an interval of one year after their last booster dose:



a.  ages 60 years and above,

b.  medically vulnerable persons (see Annex) aged 12 years and above,
or,

c.  residents living in aged care facilities.



The updated bivalent vaccines are recommended for this. Other persons 12
years and above may also receive one booster dose at the same interval,
if they choose to.



10.     Persons aged 5 years and above continue to be recommended to
achieve at least _Minimum Protection_ (such as three doses of the mRNA
vaccines) and should proceed to get vaccinated as soon as possible, if
they have not done so.



11.     Children aged 6 months to 4 years also continue to be
recommended to complete their primary vaccination series by completing
two doses of Moderna/SpikeVax or three doses of
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty at an interval of eight weeks apart.



CONCLUSION



12.     The updated recommendations take into consideration the current
COVID-19 situation and the level of protection in our population. If or
when a new COVID-19 variant emerges, and is assessed to pose a
significant threat, there may be a need for the population at large to
receive boosters at that time to ensure better protection. EC19V will
provide recommendations for such a response, if required.



13.     The EC19V continues to keep track of further developments on
COVID-19 vaccines and the evolving global and local pandemic situation,
and may update its recommendations periodically as needed.





EXPERT COMMITTEE ON COVID-19 VACCINATION

9 FEBRUARY 2023
