Extension of Nutri-grade Requirements to Freshly Prepared Beverages From
End 2023



EXTENSION OF NUTRI-GRADE REQUIREMENTS TO FRESHLY PREPARED BEVERAGES FROM END 2023


Published Date: 13 Feb 2023

     From end 2023, the Nutri-Grade labelling requirements and
advertising prohibitions will be extended to freshly prepared beverages
intended for sale at specified settings in Singapore. Additional
labelling requirements will also be introduced to beverages under the
current Nutri-Grade measures. These include pre-packaged beverages sold
in Singapore and beverages dispensed from non-customisable automated
beverage dispensers.



2.     The measures aim to further reduce the population’s sugar intake
as freshly prepared beverages are another large and growing source of
sugar in Singaporeans’ diets. Freshly prepared beverages include freshly
brewed coffee or tea, freshly squeezed juices, freshly blended
smoothies, bubble tea, freshly prepared herbal drinks, and beverages
dispensed from machines.



3.     The additional measures will apply to freshly prepared and
existing Nutri-Grade beverages sold in specified settings, which include
(i) retail settings such as food and beverage (F&B) outlets and catering
establishments, and (ii) non-retail settings such as hotels, workplaces,
educational institutions, healthcare institutions and childcare
facilities.



4.     With these additional Nutri-Grade measures, Singaporeans can make
better informed, healthier choices through (a) helping consumers
identify beverages that have higher levels of sugar and saturated fat,
(b) reducing the influence of advertising on consumer preferences, and
(c) spurring industry reformulation.



KEY FEATURES OF THE ADDITIONAL MEASURES

_ _

5.     The key features of the additional measures are:



a)  Freshly prepared Nutri-Grade beverages must be graded “A”, “B”,
“C” or “D”, according to the Nutri-Grade grading system which is based
on the beverages’ sugar and saturated fat content;



b)  If the freshly prepared or existing Nutri-Grade beverage is graded
“C” or “D”, the Nutri-Grade mark must be labelled next to beverages
listed for sale, such as on physical or online menus at their point of
purchase. The labelling of Nutri-Grade beverages graded “A” or “B” will
continue to be optional. To better help consumers in their decision
making when selecting beverages from menus, a simplified Nutri-Grade
mark has been developed and is to be placed next to the individual
beverage listings. The variants of the Nutri-Grade mark are shown in the
following figure.



Figure: Nutri-Grade mark variants

[Picture 1]

*The finalised artwork for the preliminary version of the usage guide
has been released at HPB's website
(https://www.hpb.gov.sg/healthy-living/food-beverage/nutri-grade). The
final version of the guide will be released by HPB at a later date.



c)  Information on freshly prepared Nutri-Grade beverages, such as the
amount of sugar and saturated fat, must be available to any person who
wishes to view the information, either through an electronic record or a
physical copy; and



d)  Advertisements promoting the sale of freshly prepared Nutri-Grade
beverages graded “D” will be prohibited.



CONCESSION FOR SMALLER FOOD BUSINESSES



6.     To ensure a smooth transition in implementation, the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and the Health Promotion Board (HPB) will first provide a
concession to individuals and entities running smaller food businesses
that involve the sale or supply of freshly prepared Nutri-Grade
beverages, if they (i) earn a revenue of not more than S$1 million in
the latest financial year, and (ii) sell or supply those beverages at
fewer than 10 food premises. This is in view of the challenges such
individuals and entities may face, such as a lack of resources to
determine the grading of the beverages being sold. We will review this
concession over time and make the necessary adjustments.



7.     These individuals and entities will still be required to comply
with the measures for existing Nutri-Grade beverages in pre-packaged
form or dispensed from vending machines and non-customisable automatic
beverage dispensers.



CONSULTATION AND CONTINUED PARTNERSHIP WITH INDUSTRY STAKEHOLDERS
8.   MOH and HPB consulted over 3,000 industry stakeholders, from 9
February to 4 March 2022, to seek their feedback on the implementation
of these additional measures. A summary of the stakeholders’ key
comments and the Government’s clarifications and responses is available
on MOH’s website at
https://www.moh.gov.sg/e-consultation/additional-nutrigrade-measures-2023
and HPB’s website at
https://www.hpb.gov.sg/healthy-living/food-beverage/nutri-grade. We
thank participants for their feedback and have incorporated it where
appropriate.
9.     MOH and HPB are working towards publishing the measures in the
Government Gazette in mid-2023, to have them come into effect six months
thereafter in end 2023. A summary of the new requirements for
Nutri-Grade measures can be found in Annex A.

_ _

10.     MOH and HPB will continue to work closely with the industry in
the coming months to ensure a smooth transition to implement these
measures. Resources to facilitate the implementation can be found on
HPB’s website.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

13 FEBRUARY 2023




