Singapore to Exit Acute Phase of Pandemic



SINGAPORE TO EXIT ACUTE PHASE OF PANDEMIC


Published Date: 09 Feb 2023

         Singapore’s COVID-19 situation has remained stable in recent
months. This is despite increased travel over the year-end holiday
period, the Northern Hemisphere winter season and China’s shift away
from a Zero-COVID policy. We are therefore able to step down the
remaining few COVID-19 measures, and establish an endemic COVID-19 new
norm.



2.  That said, the virus will continue to evolve, and we
should expect new infection waves from time to time, and over and over.
An endemic COVID-19 new normal will therefore not be static, and we will
adjust our measures when necessary. But unless it is a very dangerous
and virulent variant, we should be able to manage these subsequent waves
with an appropriate level of measures that does not deviate
significantly from the new norm, and continue to live our lives
normally.





UPDATES ON GLOBAL SITUATION




3.  Globally, the number of new COVID-19 cases has been
declining since late December 2022, and viral variants of higher
severity have not emerged. Infection waves in the Northern Hemisphere
and in China are rapidly subsiding. Locally, there was no significant
increase in the number of imported cases. The World Health Organization
has recently acknowledged that the pandemic is nearing a turning point,
signaling that the global COVID-19 emergency may be ending soon. Amidst
the improving international situation, several countries have recently
eased COVID-19 measures or signaled further steps towards treating
COVID-19 as an endemic disease.





UPDATES ON LOCAL SITUATION




4.  Our population has developed a high level of hybrid
immunity and is well protected from severe COVID-19. Around 80% of our
population have achieved minimum protection, and around half are up to
date with their vaccinations. Many have also recovered from infection
during previous COVID-19 waves. With this, the risk of COVID-19
infections leading to severe illness or death has become very low,
comparable to other endemic respiratory diseases, such as influenza or
pneumococcal infections. Over January 2023, the daily number of COVID-19
related hospitalisations stayed below 100, and daily COVID-19 related
patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) remained in the single digits.





STEPPING DOWN TO DORSCON GREEN




5.  The Disease Outbreak Response System Condition (DORSCON)
framework gives an indication of the current disease situation. With the
stable global and local situation, the mild nature of the disease
especially among vaccinated individuals, and the minimal disruption
posed to our healthcare capacity and daily lives, we will adjust the
current DORSCON level from Yellow to Green from 13 FEBRUARY 2023.





STEPPING DOWN COMMUNITY MEASURES




6.  From 13 FEBRUARY 2023, we will step down the following
community measures:

Mask-Wearing



7.  MASK-WEARING ON PUBLIC TRANSPORT AND INDOOR HEALTHCARE
AND RESIDENTIAL CARE SETTINGS WILL NO LONGER BE REQUIRED UNDER THE
TEMPORARY COVID-19 REGULATIONS.



8.  However, THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH (MOH) WILL RETAIN THE
PRACTICE OF MASK-WEARING FOR VISITORS, STAFF AND PATIENTS IN HEALTHCARE
AND RESIDENTIAL CARE SETTINGS, WHERE THERE IS INTERACTION WITH PATIENTS
AND IN INDOOR PATIENT-FACING AREAS (further details in Annex A and Annex
B). Examples are hospital wards, clinics and nursing homes. This will be
a MOH requirement rather than mandated under the COVID-19 regulations.
This is to better protect patients and healthcare workers from
infectious diseases in general.



9.  Besides healthcare, other authorities may also require
mask-wearing, just as the Singapore Food Agency has required food
handlers to wear a mask or spit guard for food safety reasons. Private
enterprises may also opt to maintain mask-wearing requirements as
company policy for workplace health and safety or business continuity
reasons.



10.  As mask-wearing is an effective way to minimise the risk of
infectious diseases, we encourage members of the public, especially the
elderly and immunocompromised, to wear masks in crowded places, or when
visiting or interacting with vulnerable persons. We strongly advise
individuals who are unwell with symptoms of COVID-19 or other
respiratory infections to wear a mask when they need to leave their
homes.



Revised Health Advisory



11.  We will STAND DOWN PROTOCOLS 1-2-3 from 13 February 2023.
Henceforth, unwell or infected persons should follow the updated general
advisory as follows:



-   Medically vulnerable persons (i.e. seniors and those with chronic
    medical conditions) that have Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI)
    symptoms, as well as persons with severe, prolonged or worsening ARI
    symptoms, should see a doctor. The updated advisory for persons who
    are at increased risk of severe COVID-19 can be found at this
    link.

&nbsp;
-   Persons with mild ARI symptoms should stay at home until symptoms
    resolve

&nbsp;
-   If there is a need to go out while symptomatic, or if asymptomatic
    but tested positive for COVID-19, we should exercise social
    responsibility – minimise social interactions, wear a mask, avoid
    crowded places, do not visit vulnerable settings such as hospitals
    and nursing homes, and do not have contact with vulnerable persons,
    such as the elderly.



Public Health Measures for Migrant Workers Living in Dormitories



12.  From 1 March 2023, the Ministry of Manpower (MOM) will also
align measures for migrant workers (MWs) living in dormitories with the
new general advisory for the community. MWs with mild ARI symptoms may
recover in their dormitory or see a doctor if they wish at any primary
care provider clinic. COVID-19 tests will only be administered for
symptomatic vulnerable MWs or those with severe ARI symptoms. In
addition, MWs who test positive for COVID-19 will not need to be
conveyed to COVID-19 recovery facilities but may recover within their
dormitories. MWs with more serious symptoms (e.g. shortness of breath,
chest pain) will be conveyed to the emergency department of public
healthcare institutions.



13.  Migrant workers have been free to exit dormitories and
visit community areas since the beginning of 2022. The Popular Places
Pass is a contingency measure to manage crowding in four designated
popular locations on Sundays and public holidays. Notwithstanding,
passes have been ample and no migrant worker had been prevented from
visiting the community. In line with the move to DORSCON Green, the
Popular Places Pass will be discontinued from 13 February 2023.





STEPPING DOWN TRACETOGETHER (TT) AND SAFEENTRY (SE)




14.  TT and SE served us well during the acute phase of the
pandemic by accelerating our contact tracing efforts and enabling the
implementation of community safe management measures. Over the past few
months, as the pandemic situation stabilised, the Government has
progressively stepped down TT and SE. We no longer require infected
persons to submit TT data, SE data is no longer being collected, and MOH
has deleted all identifiable TT and SE data from its servers and
databases.



15.  The TT data pertaining to a murder case in May 2020 will be
retained indefinitely. This is especially necessary for serious cases
such as murder, where legal applications may be made to challenge the
conviction or sentence many years after the case has concluded, and the
Singapore Police Force (SPF) may be obliged to disclose the data.



16.  It is nevertheless useful to keep both the TT and SE
systems ready for reactivation for the contingency when a new, more
dangerous Variant of Concern breaks out. For this purpose, registration
details such as name, business UEN, and mobile number will be retained
in the system, to minimise the steps taken by individuals and companies
to set up and re-register for TT and SE, should it be needed.



17.  Members of the public can uninstall their TT App, and
enterprises may do the same for the SE (Business) App. Both the TT and
SE (Business) Apps will remain available on the App Store, Google Play
Store and Huawei AppGallery for quick reactivation if needed.



18.  A TT Token return exercise will take place from 13 February
to 12 March 2023. Members of the public can return their Tokens at TT
Token counters that will be open at all 108 Community Clubs/Centres
(CCs). We strongly encourage the public to return their Tokens so that
they can be refurbished and recycled for distribution to those who need
it, should digital contact tracing operations have to be reactivated.





REGULARISING COVID-19 FINANCING SCHEMES




19.  As we treat COVID-19 as an endemic disease, we will further
scale back pandemic subsidies and re-align the provision of financing
support for COVID-19 testing and treatment to that of other acute
illnesses. The following changes will thus be implemented with effect
from 1 APRIL 2023[1]:



a)  Hospitals and COVID-19 Treatment Facilities (CTFs). All patients,
including Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents and Long-Term Pass
Holders (SCs/PRs/LTPHs) regardless of vaccination status, who visit a
hospital or CTF for COVID-19 treatment will no longer be accorded 100%
subsidy. Instead, our regular healthcare safety nets, namely, Government
subsidies, MediShield Life and MediSave will apply to SCs and PRs and
defray their healthcare expenses. We wish to assure lower income
Singaporeans that financial assistance will be available to ensure that
healthcare cost remains affordable.



b)  Community Isolation Facilities (CIFs). CIFs will no longer be
required for COVID-19, just as they are not required for other endemic
diseases like influenza or chicken pox.  Nevertheless, we will maintain
some CIFs for COVID-19 patients who want to self-isolate for valid
reasons. However, all occupants, including SCs/PRs/LTPHs, will be
charged for their stay. As CIFs are not medical facilities, SCs and PRs
will not be able to tap on Government subsidies, MediShield Life or
MediSave to pay for their bills.



c)  Primary care settings (Polyclinics and GP clinics). All patients
will be required to pay for any COVID-19 testing, subject to prevailing
subsidies.



20.  COVID-19 vaccines and therapeutics. COVID-19 vaccinations
and COVID-19 oral antivirals will remain fully subsidised for clinically
eligible patients in outpatient (including primary care), ambulatory
settings of public hospitals and nursing homes, until further notice.
This is because these are important preventive steps and treatments to
avoid severe disease and hospitalisations, and will remain an important
part of living with COVID-19.  Additionally, patients with a higher risk
of severe COVID-19, such as the immunocompromised and individuals with
some comorbidities, may be referred by their doctors for free
telemedicine support.





STEPPING DOWN BORDER MEASURES




21.  We launched the Vaccinated Travel Framework (VTF) in April
2022 to facilitate the safe resumption of international travel. In view
of the stable and improving global COVID-19 situation, and the low
impact of imported cases on our healthcare capacity, we will stand down
the remaining COVID-19 border measures. From 13 FEBRUARY 2023, all
non-fully vaccinated travellers entering Singapore will no longer be
required to show proof of a negative Pre-Departure Test. Non-fully
vaccinated Short Term Visitors will no longer be required to purchase
COVID-19 travel insurance. However, the VTF will remain in place for
reactivation if there are international developments of concern, such as
new severe variants or signs that our healthcare capacity is strained by
imported cases.



22.  MOH continues to screen travellers for other infectious
diseases of concern, such as Yellow Fever, Middle East Respiratory
Syndrome and Ebola. All travellers entering Singapore via air or sea
(including Singapore residents), and Short-Term Visitors entering via
land, must continue to submit a health declaration via the SG Arrival
Card e-service. Travellers are advised to check the ICA website for the
latest border measures before entering Singapore.





VACCINATION AS OUR PRIMARY DEFENCE IN LIVING WITH COVID-19




23.  Vaccination remains our first line of defence against
COVID-19. Our high vaccination rates have been pivotal to enable us to
weather successive waves of COVID-19 infections, build up our societal
resilience, protect our healthcare system, and arrive at the endemic
COVID-19 norm today. Given our high level of resilience and with the
transition to an endemic COVID-19 new normal, the Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination (EC19V) has reviewed our vaccination guidelines,
and MOH agrees with the updated recommendations, as follows:



a.  Everyone aged 5 years and above should achieve at least _Minimum
Protection_ – that is, three doses of mRNA or Novavax vaccine, or four
doses of Sinovac vaccine.



b.  Persons at higher risk of severe disease from COVID-19, that is,
persons aged 60 years and above, medically vulnerable persons, and
residents of aged care facilities, are recommended to take the booster
around one year after the last booster dose. We urge them to receive
their booster dose this year when they become eligible for it.



c.  Persons aged 12 to 59 years who are healthy have a lower risk of
severe disease. Nevertheless, a booster around one year after their last
booster dose will be offered to enhance their protection.



d.  Persons aged 5 to 11 years continue to be recommended to achieve
_Minimum Protection_. They are neither recommended nor eligible for
additional doses at this time.



e.  Children aged 6 months to 4 years continue to be recommended to
complete two doses of Moderna/SpikeVax or three doses of
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty. They are not recommended nor eligible for
additional doses at this time.



24.  As mentioned earlier, COVID-19 vaccinations under the
National Vaccination Programme will continue to be offered free to all
Singapore Citizens, Permanent Residents, Long Term Pass Holders and
certain Short Term Pass Holders. All persons eligible for COVID-19
vaccination may book an appointment at the Joint Testing and Vaccination
Centres, participating Public Health Preparedness Clinics, polyclinics
and Vaccination Centres.



25.  As part of ongoing efforts to ensure vaccination remains
convenient for our seniors, we will continue deploying mobile
vaccination teams (MVTs) to heartland locations. Between 15 February and
2 April 2023, MVTs will be deployed to multiple heartland locations for
three days each. The full list of MVT sites and schedules will be
continually updated at https://gowhere.gov.sg/.



26.  MOH, with the advice of EC19V, will update our vaccination
recommendations in future and when needed.





VACCINATION REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMANENT RESIDENCE, LONG TERM PASSES AND WORK PASSES REMAIN IN PLACE




27.  The COVID-19 vaccination requirements for new Permanent
Residence, Long-Term Pass and Work Pass applications, as well as the
renewal of selected Work Permit Holders and S Pass Holders in the
construction, marine shipyard and process sectors or residing in
dormitories, will remain in place to maintain the high level of
vaccination coverage nationally. From 1 April 2023, persons who recently
recovered from COVID-19 will no longer be given temporary exemption from
COVID-19 vaccination requirements. Applicants are advised to check the
ICA and MOM websites for the latest requirements before applying.





STANDING DOWN OF THE MULTI-MINISTRY TASKFORCE




28.  The Multi-Ministry Taskforce (MTF) was convened in January
2020 to mount a swift and coordinated whole-of-Government response
against COVID-19. With the transition to DORSCON Green, the MTF will be
stood down and the Ministry of Health will assume the management of the
COVID-19 situation. However, if the situation worsens significantly, we
will reactivate an appropriate multi-agency crisis management
structure.



STAYING VIGILANT



29.  MOH will continue to keep a close watch on the evolving
COVID-19 situation. Ongoing surveillance of local and imported cases and
through international partnerships, such as GISAID, will help to provide
early warning signals of new variants with greater transmissibility or
severity.



30.  We will also continue to monitor our healthcare capacity.
If there are signs that our healthcare capacity is becoming strained or
a new and more dangerous variant has emerged, we may have to revise the
DORSCON level, and reactivate some of our community and border measures
again at short notice. There may be a need for the population to
urgently receive boosters to ensure that we remain protected. Should
this happen, we seek the support of everyone in Singapore to rally
together again as we have over the past three years to overcome any new
threat.









REFLECTING ON OUR FIGHT AGAINST COVID-19




31.  We have engaged in a long campaign against COVID-19 and
have emerged as a more prepared, resilient, and united nation with one
of the lowest COVID-19 death rates in the world. We thank all
Singaporeans for playing a part in keeping themselves and others safe,
and exercising social responsibility to prevent COVID-19 infections,
such as getting vaccinated, mask-wearing and adopting good hygiene
practices. We encourage Singaporeans to continue these good practices.



32.  We would like to express our deepest appreciation to
healthcare workers, who stood at the frontlines of our battle with
COVID-19 and tirelessly supported the pandemic response effort over the
last three years. We are also deeply appreciative of all those who have
contributed to our fight against COVID-19, whether in developing
policies and plans, in procurement and logistics, in enforcement and
engagement, and a whole spectrum of backend support operations.



33.  We have been reviewing our experience in grappling with
COVID-19 over the last three years. We will learn from this experience,
so that Singapore can be prepared to respond to future pandemics.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

9 FEBRUARY 2023

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1] Applies to new admissions in public hospitals, COVID-19 Treatment
Facilities and Community Isolation Facilities from 1 April 2023.
