Walk-ins for All Age Groups At Joint Testing & Vaccination Centres and
Children Vaccination Centres



WALK-INS FOR ALL AGE GROUPS AT JOINT TESTING & VACCINATION CENTRES AND CHILDREN VACCINATION CENTRES


Published Date: 03 Jan 2023

From 4 January 2023, all individuals getting their COVID-19 vaccinations
and boosters can walk in to any Joint Testing and Vaccination Centre
(JTVC) or Children Vaccination Centre (CVC) from Mondays to Saturdays.
In addition, from 16 January 2023, the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine
will be rolled out for children aged 6 months to 4 years at two JTVCs.



2.  From 4 January, eligible individuals of any age group can
walk in to JTVCs and CVCs without the need for an appointment. On days
where there is high demand for vaccination, particularly Saturdays, a
longer waiting period should be expected.  COVID-19 vaccinations at the
polyclinics and Public Health Preparedness Clinics will continue to
require an appointment, with the exception of seniors aged 80 years and
above for polyclinics. Please visit https://www.gowhere.gov.sg/vaccine
to locate the nearest vaccination site.



3.  All children aged 12 years and below must be accompanied
by a parent or guardian on the day of vaccination. Please bring along
your child or ward’s identification document (e.g. Birth Certificate and
Health booklet/Passport/Student Identification Card/Singpass) for
verification.



ROLLOUT OF PFIZER-BIONTECH/COMIRNATY VACCINE FOR CHILDREN AGED 6 MONTHS
TO 4 YEARS



4.  From 16 January 2023, the Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty
vaccine for children aged 6 months to 4 years will be offered at JTVC
Ang Mo Kio and JTVC Bukit Merah. This follows the Expert Committee on
COVID-19 Vaccination’s recommendation on 6 December 2022 for the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine to be administered for primary
vaccination series for this age group, as an alternative to the
Moderna/Spikevax vaccine. The two JTVCs will also offer the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine for children aged 5 to 11 years to
attain minimum protection. The full list of designated vaccination sties
for children aged 6 months to 4 years can be found in Annex A.



5.  Parents or guardians should note that the
Pfizer-BioNTech/Comirnaty vaccine requires three doses taken eight weeks
apart (over a total of 16 weeks), compared to two doses taken over eight
weeks for the Moderna/Spikevax vaccine. This means their children will
require more vaccination visits and a longer period to achieve optimal
protection. Parents or guardians should plan their child or ward’s
appointments according to these recommended intervals.





6.  Vaccinations remain crucial in keeping our population
safe from COVID-19. We encourage parents/guardians to have their
child/ward vaccinated against COVID-19, to be well protected against
severe disease and hospitalisation should they be infected with
COVID-19.





MINISTRY OF HEALTH

3 JANUARY 2023




