Supporting Healthcare Workers Against Abuse and Harassment



SUPPORTING HEALTHCARE WORKERS AGAINST ABUSE AND HARASSMENT


Published Date: 17 Mar 2023

        The Tripartite Workgroup for the Prevention of Abuse and
Harassment of Healthcare Workers has recommended the adoption of a
standardised zero-tolerance policy against the abuse and harassment of
healthcare workers in any form, as it released its findings and
recommendations today.



2.  The Workgroup was established in April 2022 to spearhead
a coordinated national effort to prevent the abuse and harassment of
healthcare workers in the public, private, and community care sectors.
Co-chaired by Professor Chua Hong Choon, Deputy Group Chief Executive
Officer (Strategy & Transformation) of the National Healthcare Group,
and Dr Benjamin Koh, Deputy Secretary (Development) in the Ministry of
Health (MOH), it comprises representatives from MOH, Healthcare Services
Employees’ Union, public healthcare clusters, community care partners
and private healthcare providers. Senior Parliamentary Secretary for
Health, Mdm Rahayu Mahzam, is the advisor for the Workgroup.



FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE TRIPARTITE WORKGROUP TO PREVENT
ABUSE AND HARASSMENT OF HEALTHCARE WORKERS



3.  The Workgroup has completed an extensive engagement with
more than 3,000 healthcare workers, and more than 1,500 members of the
public, through surveys and focus group discussions. The key findings
are:



a)  More than two in three healthcare workers said they had witnessed
or personally experienced abuse or harassment in the past year. Half of
them, or a third of all healthcare workers, witnessed or experienced
abuse or harassment at least once a week. Frontline healthcare workers
such as pharmacists, patient service associates, and nurses are more
likely to experience abuse and harassment.



b)  The most common forms of abuse and harassment are shouting,
threats by patients and/or caregivers to file complaints or take legal
action against the healthcare workers, and demeaning comments.



c)  Healthcare workers experiencing abuse and harassment sometimes
rationalise these as being part of their job.



d)  Healthcare workers often empathise with patients’ circumstances
and do not take action against them. As a result, abuse and harassment
are often under-reported.



The engagement findings and the Workgroup’s recommendations can be found
in the Annex.



4.  The Workgroup recommends adopting a standardised
zero-tolerance policy against the abuse and harassment of healthcare
workers in any form, using a three-pronged framework of Protect, Prevent
and Promote:



a)  Protect healthcare workers who face abuse and harassment;

b)  Prevent situations that lead to abuse and harassment; and

c)  Promote positive relationships between healthcare workers and
patients/ caregivers.



5.  To PROTECT healthcare workers from abuse and harassment
and build a supportive culture where they feel safe to work and
confident to report abuse and harassment, it is important to establish
the following:



  i.  A clear and common definition of abuse and harassment,
which includes any inappropriate behaviour or communication that causes
a healthcare worker to experience distress, harassment, threat or
discrimination, regardless of intention;



  ii.  An effective reporting and escalation protocol;



  iii.  A supportive culture of reporting; and



  iv.  Clear consequences that are implemented and enforced.
This may include issuing a warning to the perpetrator; disengaging by
refusing unreasonable requests or in cases when the patient does not
require any urgent medical care, discharging the abusive patient; and
disengaging from abusive caregivers or visitors by preventing them from
entering the premises.



6.  The Workgroup also recommends that institutions train
their staff to PREVENT potential abusive situations by equipping them
with the skills and knowledge to manage and de-escalate challenging
situations and deterring potential offenders through the enforcement of
consequences.



7.  The Workgroup recommends that the public healthcare
sector leads by example, and the public healthcare institutions have
agreed to strengthen their existing processes and implement this
standardised zero-tolerance policy. MOH will work with public healthcare
clusters to develop the details in the second half of 2023. Private
healthcare institutions and community care organisations will be
encouraged to refer to the parameters of this policy, when it is ready,
and adapt it to their processes and operating models where feasible.



8.  In the second half of 2023, MOH Holdings will launch a
national public education campaign, to PROMOTE positive relationships of
trust and respect between healthcare workers, patients and their
caregivers. The objective of the campaign is to align expectations of
healthcare workers’ roles, and promote respect for healthcare workers.





9.  Healthcare manpower is a vital resource and MOH is
committed to grow, nurture and support them. We encourage members of the
public to partner with us in creating a safe and conducive working
environment for our healthcare workers to carry out their duties
effectively.

MINISTRY OF HEALTH

17 MARCH 2023
