Launch of the 2023 Action Plan for Successful Ageing



LAUNCH OF THE 2023 ACTION PLAN FOR SUCCESSFUL AGEING


Published Date: 30 Jan 2023

                The Ministerial Committee on Ageing (MCA) has launched
the 2023 Action Plan for Successful Ageing to address the evolving needs
and aspirations of current and future seniors.

2023 ACTION PLAN

2.  To cater to the greater diversity in experiences,
aspirations and needs of Singaporeans, the refreshed Action Plan
formulates an extensive set of many ground-up responses towards ageing
which involves many people-private-public sector initiatives. In the
process of developing the measures, the Government has engaged over
5,000 Singaporeans through more than 40 engagement sessions starting in
2019 to co-create the 2023 Action Plan and its new initiatives.

3.  Taking into account the feedback, the 2023 Action Plan
will focus on community initiatives to empower Singaporeans to take
charge of their own ageing journeys and is anchored on three ’C’s –
‘Care’, ‘Contribution’ and ‘Connectedness’, to help them live life to
the fullest. Key highlights under each thrust include:

CARE THRUST

4.  Good health is key to enjoying a good quality of life.
Initiatives under the Care Thrust seek to empower seniors to take charge
of their own physical and mental well-being through preventive health,
active ageing programmes and care services, such as:

(A)  ENHANCED HEALTH AND WELLNESS PROGRAMME

5.  The ‘Live Well, Age Well’ programme by the Health
Promotion Board and People’s Association comprises a suite of active
ageing programmes which empowers seniors to improve and maintain their
physical, mental and social health, across six domains:

  i.  Live Active – to support seniors in
meeting the recommended physical activity levels, with a focus on
strength, balance and flexibility;

  ii.  Live Assured – to encourage seniors
to go for regular recommended health screening and follow-up;

  iii.  Live Nourished – to encourage seniors
to adopt a healthy and balanced diet, with a focus on meeting
recommended intake of important nutrients including protein and calcium;

  iv.  Live Enriched – to equip seniors with
knowledge and skills to improve and maintain their physical, mental and
functional health;

  v.  Live Prepared – to equip seniors with
essential knowledge and skills to stay independent and have a fulfilled
post-retirement; and

  vi.  Live Happy – to educate seniors on the
importance of mental and social well-being and encourage active
participation to stay socially connected.



6.  These initiatives are being gradually rolled out at
accessible locations nationwide, including Community Clubs/ Centres,
Residents’ Committee/ Residents’ Network Centres and Active Ageing
Centres. The ’Live Well, Age Well’ programme aims to reach over 550,000
participants over the next five years.

(B)  SUPPORTING DEMENTIA

7.  To enhance care and support for persons living with
dementia and their caregivers, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and our
partners adopt a comprehensive approach along five pillars, namely, (1)
prevention and awareness; (2) early identification and diagnosis of
dementia; (3) empowerment of persons living with dementia to age well in
the community and support for their caregivers; (4) development of
innovative care models; and (5) capability building through training and
education. Key efforts include:

                        i.  Memory clinics have been established
in 16 out of 23 polyclinics to improve access to dementia diagnosis and
care management in the community.

  ii.  The number of Community Outreach
Teams (CREST), who proactively identify seniors at risk of dementia and
refer them for further assessment, will be increased from 61 to 73 by
March 2025.

  iii.  The CREST-Post Diagnostic Support
(PDS) pilot was launched to proactively reach out to families upon
diagnosis and link them up with resources. The number of CREST-PDS teams
will be tripled to six by March 2025.

  iv.  Funding will be provided to enhance
research on dementia, catalyse new innovations, and scale up solutions
that have shown good outcomes to delay or manage dementia.

(C)  PRE-PLANNING AND PREPARING FOR END-OF-LIFE

8.  Most Singaporeans prefer to pass on at home rather than
in hospitals. To meet these aspirations, MOH is working with healthcare
and community care providers to smoothen discharge processes from
hospitals and scale up palliative care capability and capacity, while
also providing better support for caregivers at home. Through these
efforts, the proportion of deaths in hospitals is targeted to reduce
from 61% to 51% by 2027.

9.  MOH, the Ministry of Social and Family Development and
ServiceSG will jointly step up efforts to raise awareness of end-of-life
care planning and encourage more people to make their Lasting Power of
Attorney and engage in Advance Care Planning.

CONTRIBUTION THRUST

10.  From sentiments gathered through engagement sessions,
seniors have a wide range of preferences for how they would like to be
able to contribute meaningfully in their silver years – from continued
employment supported by more flexible arrangements, to taking up
volunteering opportunities. The following initiatives outline selected
efforts under the 2023 Action Plan that aim to enable seniors to
continue contributing their knowledge and expertise:

(A)  REMAINING IN PRODUCTIVE EMPLOYMENT

11.  The Ministry of Manpower is extending the Senior Employment
Credit from 2023 to 2025 to provide wage offsets for employers who
employ Singaporeans aged 60 and above earning up to $4,000 a month.

12.  The Part-time Re-employment Grant will also be extended
with revised eligibility criteria from 2023 to 2025 to incentivise
employers to offer part-time re-employment, other flexible work
arrangements and structured career planning to senior workers. This will
provide more flexible work options to attract and retain senior workers
as well as support their career longevity.

13.  The National Trades Union Congress and its affiliated
unions have also worked with companies to increase their internal
retirement age and offer re-employment beyond the legislated
re-employment age. They will also continue to work with companies to
form Company Training Committees, that aim to help workers – including
older workers – remain relevant and future-ready.

(B)  SUPPORTING RETIRING SENIORS TO CONTRIBUTE THROUGH VOLUNTEERING

14.  The SG Cares Office under the Ministry of Culture,
Community & Youth will partner RSVP Singapore to raise awareness and
promote volunteerism among mature workers at their workplaces and
collaborate with the National Council of Social Service to develop
volunteer management resources to equip volunteer host organisations to
better engage senior volunteers. The aim is to engage 750 corporates to
drive senior volunteerism by 2027.

15.  MOH and the Council for Third Age will also roll out the
enhanced Silver Volunteer Fund in 2023 to ensure senior volunteerism
remains meaningful and sustainable for seniors. Efforts will focus on
volunteer training and development, deepening volunteer appreciation
efforts, and fostering opportunities for inter-generational
volunteering.

(C)  LEARNING WHILE AGEING

16.  Built up through earlier efforts to enhance the senior
learning landscape and make learning more engaging for seniors, the
National Silver Academy (NSA) today offers more than 1,000 courses
across a wide range of topics catered to seniors. The courses will
incorporate the newly launched geragogy guidelines which aim to enhance
the learning experience for seniors. Selected courses will also be
converted to online formats to offer greater accessibility to seniors.
The NSA aims to reach over 70,000 senior learners over the next five
years.

CONNECTEDNESS THRUST

17.  Our built environment, social communities and
senior-friendly neighbourhoods are significant contributors towards
successful ageing. The 2023 Action Plan also sets out efforts to support
seniors to age well in the community, while staying connected to society
and their loved ones both digitally and physically. Some of these
initiatives include:

(A)  SENIOR-FRIENDLY PARKS AND GARDENS

18.  National Parks Board is working towards setting up 25
Therapeutic Gardens across parks island-wide by 2027 and will also
continue facilitating Therapeutic Horticulture programmes to promote
better physical and mental health of seniors.

19.  The evidence-based design of these gardens and programmes
will benefit a diverse range of conditions such as dementia, stroke,
heart and mood disorders, and increase seniors’ overall sense of
well-being and connectedness with the community.

(B)  MOVING AROUND WITH PEACE OF MIND

 20.  The Ministry of Transport (MOT) and Land Transport
Authority (LTA) have been enhancing senior-friendly transport. By 2025,
MOT and LTA will implement 50 Silver Zones and 100 pedestrian overhead
bridges near places frequented by seniors such as healthcare
institutions will be retrofitted with lifts. More Green Man+ will also
be installed at pedestrian crossings, to allow seniors to travel safely
and with confidence in their neighbourhood.

(C)  CELEBRATING SENIORS AND STRENGTHENING INTER-GENERATIONAL BONDS

21.  The National Celebration of Seniors event is a multi-agency
effort to empower seniors to lead an active lifestyle through sports,
lifelong learning and volunteerism. The inaugural event was held in
October 2022 and is set to be an annual feature. Sport Singapore will
also be initiating an Active Silver Hub, which offers opportunities for
seniors and youths to interact through modified sports activities and
programmes aimed at fostering intergenerational bonds.

(D)  EQUIPPING SENIORS WITH DIGITAL SKILLS

22.  COVID-19 has underscored the importance of ensuring that
our seniors are equipped with basic digital literacy and skills. Under
the Seniors Go Digital programme by the SG Digital Office, more than
210,000 seniors have been trained to use smartphones to safely and
securely access government services, communicate and transact digitally,
and to keep them connected to their loved ones and the community.
Complementing this programme, the Mobile Access for Seniors scheme has
provided about 12,000 low-income seniors with subsidised smartphones and
mobile plans.

23.  The full details of the 2023 Action Plan for Successful
Ageing are available at (www.moh.gov.sg/ifeelyoungsg). MOH and partner
agencies will continue to work closely with community partners to
strengthen the network of support for both our seniors and caregivers to
ensure Singaporeans can lead healthy lives and age-in-place
meaningfully.



MINISTRY OF HEALTH

30 JANUARY 2023


