Transforming Aged Care for Seniors to Live and Age Well



TRANSFORMING AGED CARE FOR SENIORS TO LIVE AND AGE WELL


Published Date: 03 Mar 2023

As we anchor ageing in communities, the Ministry of Health (MOH) will
review the financing and services framework to be more care-centric and
support more Singaporeans to fulfil their wishes to pass away at home.
We will also strengthen our healthcare financing safety nets to support
the elderly and families in need.
SHIFT TOWARDS MORE PREMISES-NEUTRAL, CARE-CENTRIC FINANCING
_SUPPORTING CARE AT HOME_
2. As we encourage ageing-in-place, our healthcare financing policies
need to transform to better support care delivery within communities and
homes. Currently, our financing coverage varies based on the setting and
premises where care is delivered. We intend to make our financing system
more premises-neutral to improve affordability for appropriate care
delivered across settings. This means that the availability and/or
extent of financing coverage will depend on the type of care services
received by the patient, rather than whether the patient had received
care in a particular healthcare institution or other settings.
3. This will be a major shift and changes will have to be made
gradually. As a first step, we will improve affordability for patients
who seek care at home. Homebound patients receiving MOH-subvented home
medical and home nursing services will be able to tap on the MediSave
500/700 and Flexi-MediSave schemes. This means that homebound patients
who receive treatment at home for the 23 conditions under the Chronic
Disease Management Programme (CDMP) will be able to use up to $500 or
$700 yearly (depending on the complexity of their chronic condition)
from MediSave to pay for their home care bills, similar to if they had
sought outpatient treatment at a clinic. This will cover components such
as consultation fees and blood tests conducted at home. Patients who are
aged 60 years and above can also use an additional $300 yearly under
Flexi-MediSave.
4. These MediSave changes will benefit up to 6,800 patients each year
who seek care at home. The changes will be implemented in the latter
half of 2023.
_TELEHEALTH AS A VIABLE OPTION FOR CARE DELIVERY_
5. Although telehealth is a relatively new modality of care delivery, we
saw its benefits in supporting care in the community and at home during
the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 Virtual Ward Programme allowed
patients to continue receiving the necessary medical care, while freeing
up beds in acute hospitals. We had also allowed the use of MediSave and
Community Health Assist Scheme (CHAS) Chronic subsidies for video
consultations of regular follow-ups for chronic diseases under the CDMP
for a time-limited period, which helped to support safe distancing.
6. Moving forward, we will continue incorporating telehealth in our care
models, where appropriate. Mainstream financing schemes will be
progressively extended to more telehealth services. For a start, we
intend to extend the usage of MediSave and CHAS Chronic subsidies for
video consultations of chronic diseases under CDMP beyond the current
time-limited extension. More details on implementation will be provided
later this year.
_FACILITATING MORE FLEXIBLE PALLIATIVE CARE SERVICES_
7. Many patients prefer to spend their final days at home rather than in
hospitals. To support patients’ wishes to pass away at home, MOH will
undertake a review of the financing framework for palliative care
services. For a start, more providers will be allowed to make MediSave
claims for patients receiving palliative care at home. Currently, only
home palliative care providers who specialise in providing palliative
care can help patients make MediSave claims. Moving forward, we will
allow MOH-subvented home medical and home nursing providers who provide
basic palliative care to also help these patients make MediSave claims
for palliative care. These changes are expected to benefit more than 200
patients each year.
8. In addition, we will work with hospitals and palliative care
providers to pilot new models of palliative care delivery which are
setting-neutral to ensure seamless care transition.
9. Tan Tock Seng Hospital will partner Dover Park Hospice in a pilot
programme to enable patients to receive timely and seamless care across
inpatient, day and home hospice care settings, depending on their needs.
This will reduce unnecessary readmissions to hospital. Under this pilot,
rather than funding the care as and when utilised in each hospice care
setting, MOH will provide a single bundled funding rate to empower
hospice care providers to decide which setting is most suitable, based
on the patient’s needs. Through this, providers will be better able to
streamline referral and transfer protocols across settings, and care
will be more tightly coordinated throughout the patient’s journey.
STRENGTHENING OUR SAFETY NETS FOR NEEDY ELDERLY AND FAMILIES
10. With the ageing population and rising cost of living, there is a
need to strengthen our safety nets to ensure that needy patients
continue to have access to basic healthcare.
11. The Government will provide a $1.5 billion top-up to the MediFund in
2023, to provide financial support for needy Singaporeans who are unable
to afford their remaining healthcare bills after government subsidies,
and drawing on other means of payment including MediShield Life and
MediSave. Although Permanent Residents (PRs) are not eligible for
MediFund, we will separately extend discretionary financial assistance
to PRs who face difficulties paying for their healthcare bills on a
case-by-case basis later this year. This would alleviate the healthcare
burden on needy families, especially those with Singaporean family
members.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 MARCH 2023
