Reviewing System Enablers to Support Healthcare Transformations - Health
Information Bill



REVIEWING SYSTEM ENABLERS TO SUPPORT HEALTHCARE TRANSFORMATIONS - HEALTH INFORMATION BILL


Published Date: 03 Mar 2023

HEALTH INFORMATION BILL
As we embark on Healthier SG, there is a need to transform the
communication and sharing of data among healthcare clusters, family
doctors and community care providers, to ensure a more holistic and
coordinated care journey. The Ministry of Health (MOH) aims to table the
Health Information Bill in the second half of 2023 to facilitate the
proper collection, use and sharing of patient information across
different healthcare providers and care settings in a safe and secure
manner.
2. The National Electronic Health Record (NEHR) was established in 2011
as a central repository of patient summary health records drawn from and
shared across healthcare providers to enhance care continuity. Since
2015, key health summaries from NEHR, such as medications and COVID-19
test results, have been progressively shared with patients and
caregivers through HealthHub for their health management. As of December
2022, all public healthcare institutions and over 30% of private
MOH-licensed healthcare institutions have access to NEHR. This includes
over 90% of private hospitals, nursing homes and over 60% of medical
clinics.
3. The Health Information Bill will benefit patients, residents and
healthcare providers by:
a) Increasing the functionality of the central NEHR repository, through
mandatory contribution of summary data to NEHR by licensed healthcare
providers, such as hospitals, clinics, laboratories, and extending
access and/or contribution to prescribed users like retail pharmacists;
b) Enhancing the legal framework to facilitate proactive data sharing
across MOH entities, Healthcare Services Act (HCSA) licensees and
appointed community partners to allow healthcare professionals to have a
fuller picture of one’s health for better monitoring and follow-up;
c) Putting in place safeguards for data sharing to protect patient
confidentiality and respect patient autonomy; and
d) Putting in place cybersecurity, data security and data protection
measures to safeguard health information.
_ENSURING SAFE AND SECURE DATA SHARING_
4. Since May 2022, we have consulted more than 800 residents, patients,
industry experts and healthcare providers to better understand their
concerns on the Bill. Most of the participants generally agreed with the
benefits of data sharing and were supportive of the Bill. However, there
were some concerns on medicolegal liabilities, cybersecurity and data
security.
5. To address these concerns, we will provide guidance for healthcare
professionals:
a) On the cybersecurity front, we will be setting out cyber and data
security requirements for healthcare entities. Data intermediaries
including Clinic Management System (CMS) vendors will need to ensure
that their IT systems and services maintain good cyber hygiene (e.g.
protected with anti-malware, implementation of proper access controls)
Data and systems will also have to undergo regular backups and updating
of software and security patches. In addition, healthcare staff will be
adequately trained in cybersecurity.
b) In addition to putting in place safeguards such as the need for data
security classification, and requirements for proper data storage,
transmission and disposal, we will also align data security and
protection with prevailing policies and standards under the Personal
Data Protection Act. Only authorised personnel will be allowed to access
the relevant patient health data, which will be limited to what is
necessary for their work. Healthcare providers or system vendors must
meet these requirements and are expected to report any suspected
incidents or breaches to MOH in a timely manner.
6. Health information is personal and we respect patient autonomy. As
such, we are reviewing ways to allow patients greater control over
access to their records, while ensuring that should the patient decide
to opt back in after initially opting out, he would still have a
complete set of information for his healthcare needs.
7. We will continue to engage stakeholders to gather their concerns and
feedback as we design the Health Information Bill.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 MARCH 2023
