Promoting Healthier Living for All Ages and Families



PROMOTING HEALTHIER LIVING FOR ALL AGES AND FAMILIES


Published Date: 03 Mar 2023

The Ministry of Health (MOH) will lay the foundations for healthier
residents with the launch of Healthier SG. We will continue efforts to
promote healthier choices, empower residents to lead healthier
lifestyles, and integrate social and health support to keep families
healthy.
UPDATES ON HEALTHIER SG
_NATIONAL ENROLMENT_
2. Under Healthier SG, residents are encouraged to enrol with a
Healthier SG clinic and commit to seeing one family doctor who will
support them in developing and adopting a Health Plan. The Healthier SG
family doctor will serve as the first point-of-contact to holistically
manage residents’ health.
3. From May 2023, we will start with pre-enrolment for residents with
chronic illness, who are aged 40 and above and already seeing a
Healthier SG-registered General Practitioner (GP) clinic regularly. To
preserve their existing physician-patient relationship, the GP clinic
will engage its regular pool of patients with chronic conditions to
pre-enrol onsite at the clinic. Healthier SG benefits will commence for
pre-enrolled residents from July 2023.
4. From July 2023, the national enrolment programme will begin with
Singapore Citizens and Permanent Residents who are aged 60 years and
above. We will progressively invite the remaining residents who are aged
40 years and above to choose and enrol with any Healthier SG clinics,
including the polyclinics. All residents eligible for Healthier SG
enrolment have the flexibility to choose any Healthier SG-registered
clinic using the HealthHub app.
_RESIDENT BENEFITS_
5. Upon successful enrolment, residents can schedule an appointment for
a  face-to-face onboarding Health Plan consultation with their enrolled
Healthier SG clinic. The first on-boarding Health Plan consultation will
be fully paid for by the Government.
6. After completing the onboarding health consultation, residents will
receive 3,000 Healthpoints, worth $20, through the Healthy 365 app.
These can be exchanged for vouchers from participating merchants, such
as NTUC FairPrice vouchers or TransitLink credits.
7. Nationally recommended vaccinations under the National Adult
Immunisation Schedule and screenings under the Screen for Life programme
will be fully subsidised for enrolled Singapore Citizens when they visit
their Healthier SG family doctor.
8. From early 2024, CHAS cardholders enrolled to Healthier SG GP clinics
who have  higher chronic medication needs and bills, can opt for a new
Healthier SG Chronic Tier subsidy framework, where they can enjoy access
to a selected whitelist of chronic medications (e.g. metformin,
losartan) similar to those prescribed and subsidised at polyclinics, at
prices more comparable to polyclinics. Under the Healthier SG Chronic
Tier, CHAS cardholders can receive means-tested subsidies of up to 87.5%
for whitelisted medications, with no dollar cap. They will also receive
subsidies of up to $360 per year for other components of their chronic
care, such as consultation, lab tests and non-whitelisted medications.
9. Patients who are more likely to benefit from the new Healthier SG
Chronic Tier are those with chronic illnesses with higher medication
needs and bills which exceed the current CHAS annual subsidy limits.
Such patients may wish to consult their family doctors about whether
they are suitable to switch to the whitelisted subsidised medications
under the Healthier SG Chronic Tier. Other patients, especially those
with low medication needs, may be well covered by their existing CHAS
chronic subsidies of up to $540 annually, and need not switch to the new
Healthier SG Chronic Tier. Patients will be permitted to switch between
the existing CHAS Chronic Tier and the new Healthier SG Chronic Tier, to
cater for possible changes to their medication needs. Pro-ration of the
annual dollar subsidy balance will apply upon switching. More details of
the new Healthier SG Chronic Tier can be found in Annex A.
10. From early 2024, enrolled residents with chronic conditions under
the CDMP can use MediSave to pay for their full treatment at their
Healthier SG family physician, up to the MediSave500/700 withdrawal
limit. They no longer need to co-pay 15% of their bill in cash.
NATIONAL DIABETES REFERENCE MATERIALS
11. The National Diabetes Reference Materials (NDRM) Tier 2 materials
will be published in April 2023. Available in the four official
languages, the materials focus on guidelines on physical activities,
healthy eating, ways to cope with stress, and support for Type 1
diabetes.
12. First developed and published in 2019, the NDRM aims to empower
patients to take charge of diabetes with easy-to-understand tips and
knowledge on diabetic care. It also equips care teams with resources to
increase patients’ and caregivers’ health literacy and motivate patients
for sustained lifestyle changes. The Tier 1 materials in 2019 contain
basic information on diabetes, and how patients can manage their
condition.
13. Following a series of engagement sessions in 2019 to understand the
next tier of diabetes informational needs of the general public,
patients with diabetes and their caregivers, the NDRM Tier 2 Workgroup
was convened in April 2021, comprising more than 40 experts from various
settings (private and public sectors, and covering physicians,
dietitians, physiotherapists and psychologists) and patient champions,
to develop in-depth Tier 2 content to address feedback from engagement
sessions.
14. A total of four topics have been developed under Tier 2 NDRM, with
the aim of providing patients and caregivers with deeper knowledge of
materials. The topics of focus are:
a) Physical Activity: To educate patients with diabetes on how they can
adopt physical activity in their lifestyle, and provide information on
blood glucose monitoring tips for their exercise regime, different
intensity of exercises and recommended exercises for patients with
diabetes, heart diseases and obesity;
b) Healthy Eating: To educate patients with diabetes on how they can
adopt healthy eating habits to better manage their condition. The Tier 2
materials will provide details on how to read nutritional labels,
monitor calorie intake and glycaemic index, healthier cooking and
practical tips;
c) Emotional Well-being: To provide information on how patients can cope
with the stresses of living with diabetes. The Tier 2 materials include
information on managing stress in diabetes, how diabetes may impact
sleep, as well as where to get support; and
d) Type 1 Diabetes: To share practical tips specific to Type 1 diabetes,
and how patients with the condition can be supported in their daily
lives.
15. Flipcharts and bite-sized infographics on Tier 2 topics such as
Healthy Eating and Physical Activity will be made available when the
Diabetes Hub on the HealthHub website and app is updated in April 2023.
An animation video will also be developed to raise awareness of NDRM
Tier 2 materials.
TARGETED MEASURES TO KEEP FAMILIES HEALTHY
16. MOH announced in March 2021 that we are developing a Child and
Maternal Health and Well-being (CAMH) Strategy and Action Plan to
provide holistic and comprehensive support, and address health risks and
wider determinants of health from the preconception phase to adolescents
aged 18 years old.
17. We have adopted a three-pronged approach to enable families to
achieve better health outcomes, namely, (i) going upstream to prevent
and address issues early; (ii) strengthening integration across health
and social domains; and (iii) embracing family-centricity to better
support children and their families.
18. The inter-agency Taskforce set up to oversee the development and
implementation of the CAMH Strategy and Action Plan has completed the
first of two phases of review and development. It has also embarked on
phase 1 implementation, focusing on three key aspects, namely (i) a
healthy mother and a healthy child, (ii) a happy mother and a happy
child, and (iii) a well-supported mother and an able child.
19. Several new initiatives have been announced and implemented over the
last year and more will be put in place over the next few months
including plans on Phase 2 review and development.
_NEW UNIVERSAL MENTAL HEALTH SCREENING FOR PREGNANT WOMEN AT KKH_
20. As part of our efforts to scale up support for the mental well-being
of women during and after pregnancy, KK Women’s and Children’s Hospital
(KKH) implemented the Psychological Resilience in Antenatal Management
(PRAM) programme, which offers universal antenatal mental health
screening for all pregnant women receiving outpatient obstetric care at
the hospital since December 2022. The new programme will enable early
detection and intervention for pregnant women with depressive symptoms.
_GUIDELINES LAUNCHED FOR MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT FOR MOTHERS_
21. In February 2023, KKH and the College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists Singapore launched a set of Perinatal Mental Health
Guidelines for women of child-bearing age in Singapore. With these
guidelines, women and their families will be equipped with the relevant
know-how to recognise changes in their mental well-being during
pregnancy, identify basic signs and symptoms of mental health conditions
such as anxiety and depression, and be encouraged to seek help when
needed. The set of guidelines will be disseminated to healthcare
professionals and the general public.
_NEW ADVISORY ON SCREEN USE FOR CHILDREN 12 AND BELOW_
22. MOH has launched a new advisory on screen use for children up to 12
years of age to provide parents with more resources and practical help
to support their children on healthy screen and device use. The advisory
was developed by an expert panel comprising professionals from
healthcare, social and educational agencies under the ambit of the Child
and Maternal Health and Well-being Taskforce. The advisory can be
downloaded from https://go.gov.sg/moh-screenadvisory.
_FAMILY NEXUS – INTEGRATED HUB TO SUPPORT FAMILIES_
23. In March 2022, MOH announced the piloting of Family Nexus at four
sites across Singapore to enhance the integration of services across the
health and social domains for more holistic support for children and
their families.
24. SingHealth and Families for Life have started operations of the
first site at Our Tampines Hub since November 2022, and families with
young children residing in Tampines or the East region can now access
Family Nexus services and/or sign up for activities. The other three
sites at Choa Chu Kang, Punggol and Sembawang will be progressively
rolled out over the next few months.
_MORE FAMILY-CENTRIC SERVICE DELIVERY AS A MOTHER-CHILD DYAD AT
POLYCLINICS
_
25. The mother-child dyad services have been implemented at nine
polyclinics as of 1 March 2023, including the pilot sites at Punggol and
Yishun Polyclinics.
26. Following good outcomes achieved at Punggol and Yishun Polyclinics,
MOH is scaling up the delivery of integrated services through a
mother-child dyad service model to 14 polyclinics by 2025.
27. Under this effort, both mothers and their children can access
healthcare services relevant to them in the same visit to the
polyclinic. For example, postnatal depression screening and
breastfeeding support are provided to the mothers when they bring their
child for vaccination and childhood developmental screening at the
polyclinics.
_MORE SUPPORT FOR FATHERS AND GRANDPARENTS _
28. We are also exploring more support for fathers and grandparents to
aid them in keeping themselves and their children healthy. The National
University Hospital (NUH) will be extending its mental health screening
and support to fathers of children and husbands of women under its care.
The programme allows for early intervention, case management and
multidisciplinary treatment. To widen the reach to support fathers, the
programme will be made available to clients referred by its social and
community partners, including partners for Family Nexus and KidSTART.
_ENHANCED SUPPORT FOR LOWER-INCOME FAMILIES _
29. We will also be doing more to help families with lesser means to
care for themselves. This will enable children from low-income families
to have a good head start in health and well-being in their early
formative years. Two regional pilots will be launched to provide more
holistic and comprehensive support for preschool children from
low-income families.
30. In the Northeast Region, SingHealth will be working alongside the
KidSTART and ComLink teams, to lead cross-domain and multi-agency effort
to support children through Project HOME (Holistic Management &
Enablement).
31. NUH will be rolling out a similar pilot in the West through
HEADS-UPP (HEAlth and Development SUpport in Preschool Partnerships)
programme, working with Care Corner and PCF Sparkletots preschools in
the region.
32. Both pilot programmes will equip preschool educators and social
workers with skills to support the health and development screening of
preschool children; identify at-risk children and refer them for
intervention; and provide multi-disciplinary case management to children
and their families.
33. Please refer to Annex B for details of the various programmes.
MENTAL HEALTH REMAINS A KEY PRIORITY
34. The Interagency Taskforce on Mental Health and Well-being conducted
a public consultation between May and August 2022 to gather views and
feedback on 12 preliminary recommendations across three focus areas:
a) Improving accessibility, coordination and quality of mental health
services;
b) Strengthening services and support for youth mental well-being; and
c) Improving workplace well-being measures and employment support.
35. The Taskforce received over 950 responses through an online survey
on the Government's feedback unit REACH, as well as virtual and
in-person small group engagements with key stakeholders, including
youths, parents, persons with mental health conditions, service
providers, employers, and community agencies. In general, participants
were supportive of the preliminary recommendations, and provided useful
suggestions on the refinement of implementation details of the
recommendations. The Taskforce will incorporate the feedback gathered
into the development of a national strategy for mental health and
well-being, aimed to be released at the end of 2023.
_INTRODUCING A TIERED CARE MODEL FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING_
36. To facilitate better access and smoother transitions for users of
mental health services in the social and health sectors, the Taskforce
recommends implementing a care model with a tiered system of services to
reflect the different groups of clients with varying mental health needs
and the types of mental health services, providers and
para-professionals/ professionals required to meet those needs. For the
general public, this care model will help them identify the appropriate
level of service required. For service providers, it will serve to guide
them on service provision, referrals, and care coordination among
agencies.
_DEVELOPING A NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH COMPETENCY TRAINING FRAMEWORK_
37. To complement the tiered care model, the Taskforce is also
developing a national mental health competency training framework to
establish a common set of training standards and clearly defined
competencies expected of mental health professionals and
para-professionals who support individuals with varying mental health
needs. The framework will outline the competencies needed and
recommended training programmes available, both for members of the
public who are keen to be equipped with skills to serve as peer
supporters in the community, as well as mental health
para-professionals/professionals, to uplift mental health capabilities
across the care continuum.
_IMPROVING AWARENESS AND ATTITUDES TOWARDS MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING_
38. The Taskforce recognises that stigma and attitudes towards mental
health continue to be significant concerns to many. Public education
campaigns such as HPB's "It's OKAY to Reach Out" and National Council of
Social Service's "Beyond The Label" campaigns have been rolled out to
encourage individuals to seek help for mental health and well-being, and
destigmatise mental health issues. The Taskforce will continue with
efforts to normalise conversations on mental health and well-being in
the community, to build our collective resilience as a nation.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
3 MARCH 2023
